
Num 1:1 The LORD spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the tent of meeting, on the first day of the
second month, in the second year after they had come out of the land of Egypt, saying,
Num 1:2 "Take a census of all the congregation of the people of Israel, by clans, by fathers' houses, according
to the number of names, every male, head by head.
Num 1:3 From twenty years old and upward, all in Israel who are able to go to war, you and Aaron shall list
them, company by company.
Num 1:4 And there shall be with you a man from each tribe, each man being the head of the house of his
fathers.
Num 1:5 And these are the names of the men who shall assist you. From Reuben, Elizur the son of Shedeur;
Num 1:6 from Simeon, Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai;
Num 1:7 from Judah, Nahshon the son of Amminadab;Num 1:8 from Issachar, Nethanel the son of Zuar;
Num 1:9 from Zebulun, Eliab the son of Helon;
Num 1:10 from the sons of Joseph, from Ephraim, Elishama the son of Ammihud, and from Manasseh, Gamaliel
the son of Pedahzur;
Num 1:11 from Benjamin, Abidan the son of Gideoni;
Num 1:12 from Dan, Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai;
Num 1:13 from Asher, Pagiel the son of Ochran;
Num 1:14 from Gad, Eliasaph the son of Deuel;
Num 1:15 from Naphtali, Ahira the son of Enan."
Num 1:16 These were the ones chosen from the congregation, the chiefs of their ancestral tribes, the heads of
the clans of Israel.
Num 1:17 Moses and Aaron took these men who had been named,
Num 1:18 and on the first day of the second month, they assembled the whole congregation together, who
registered themselves by clans, by fathers' houses, according to the number of names from twenty years old and
upward, head by head,
Num 1:19 as the LORD commanded Moses. So he listed them in the wilderness of Sinai.
Num 1:20 The people of Reuben, Israel's firstborn, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses,
according to the number of names, head by head, every male from twenty years old and upward, all who were
able to go to war:
Num 1:21 those listed of the tribe of Reuben were 46,500.
Num 1:22 Of the people of Simeon, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, those of them who
were listed, according to the number of names, head by head, every male from twenty years old and upward, all
who were able to go to war:
Num 1:23 those listed of the tribe of Simeon were 59,300.
Num 1:24 Of the people of Gad, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the
number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go to war:
Num 1:25 those listed of the tribe of Gad were 45,650.
Num 1:26 Of the people of Judah, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the
number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war:
Num 1:27 those listed of the tribe of Judah were 74,600.
Num 1:28 Of the people of Issachar, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the
number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war:
Num 1:29 those listed of the tribe of Issachar were 54,400.
Num 1:30 Of the people of Zebulun, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the
number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war:
Num 1:31 those listed of the tribe of Zebulun were 57,400.
Num 1:32 Of the people of Joseph, namely, of the people of Ephraim, their generations, by their clans, by their
fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to
war:
Num 1:33 those listed of the tribe of Ephraim were 40,500.
Num 1:34 Of the people of Manasseh, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to
the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war:
Num 1:35 those listed of the tribe of Manasseh were 32,200.
Num 1:36 Of the people of Benjamin, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the
number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war:
Num 1:37 those listed of the tribe of Benjamin were 35,400.
Num 1:38 Of the people of Dan, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the
number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war:
Num 1:39 those listed of the tribe of Dan were 62,700.
Num 1:40 Of the people of Asher, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the
number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war:
Num 1:41 those listed of the tribe of Asher were 41,500.
Num 1:42 Of the people of Naphtali, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the
number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war:
Num 1:43 those listed of the tribe of Naphtali were 53,400.
Num 1:44 These are those who were listed, whom Moses and Aaron listed with the help of the chiefs of Israel,
twelve men, each representing his fathers' house.
Num 1:45 So all those listed of the people of Israel, by their fathers' houses, from twenty years old and upward,
every man able to go to war in IsraelNum 1:46 all those listed were 603,550.
Num 1:47 But the Levites were not listed along with them by their ancestral tribe.
Num 1:48 For the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 1:49 "Only the tribe of Levi you shall not list, and you shall not take a census of them among the people of
Israel.
Num 1:50 But appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of the testimony, and over all its furnishings, and over all
that belongs to it. They are to carry the tabernacle and all its furnishings, and they shall take care of it and shall
camp around the tabernacle.
Num 1:51 When the tabernacle is to set out, the Levites shall take it down, and when the tabernacle is to be
pitched, the Levites shall set it up. And if any outsider comes near, he shall be put to death.
Num 1:52 The people of Israel shall pitch their tents by their companies, each man in his own camp and each
man by his own standard.
Num 1:53 But the Levites shall camp around the tabernacle of the testimony, so that there may be no wrath on
the congregation of the people of Israel. And the Levites shall keep guard over the tabernacle of the testimony."
Num 1:54 Thus did the people of Israel; they did according to all that the LORD commanded Moses.
Num 2:1 The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
Num 2:2 "The people of Israel shall camp each by his own standard, with the banners of their fathers' houses.
They shall camp facing the tent of meeting on every side.
Num 2:3 Those to camp on the east side toward the sunrise shall be of the standard of the camp of Judah by
their companies, the chief of the people of Judah being Nahshon the son of Amminadab,
Num 2:4 his company as listed being 74,600.
Num 2:5 Those to camp next to him shall be the tribe of Issachar, the chief of the people of Issachar being
Nethanel the son of Zuar,
Num 2:6 his company as listed being 54,400.
Num 2:7 Then the tribe of Zebulun, the chief of the people of Zebulun being Eliab the son of Helon,
Num 2:8 his company as listed being 57,400.
Num 2:9 All those listed of the camp of Judah, by their companies, were 186,400. They shall set out first on the
march.
Num 2:10 "On the south side shall be the standard of the camp of Reuben by their companies, the chief of the
people of Reuben being Elizur the son of Shedeur,
Num 2:11 his company as listed being 46,500.
Num 2:12 And those to camp next to him shall be the tribe of Simeon, the chief of the people of Simeon being
Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai,
Num 2:13 his company as listed being 59,300.
Num 2:14 Then the tribe of Gad, the chief of the people of Gad being Eliasaph the son of Reuel,
Num 2:15 his company as listed being 45,650.
Num 2:16 All those listed of the camp of Reuben, by their companies, were 151,450. They shall set out second.
Num 2:17 "Then the tent of meeting shall set out, with the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camps; as they
camp, so shall they set out, each in position, standard by standard.
Num 2:18 "On the west side shall be the standard of the camp of Ephraim by their companies, the chief of the
people of Ephraim being Elishama the son of Ammihud,
Num 2:19 his company as listed being 40,500.
Num 2:20 And next to him shall be the tribe of Manasseh, the chief of the people of Manasseh being Gamaliel
the son of Pedahzur,
Num 2:21 his company as listed being 32,200.
Num 2:22 Then the tribe of Benjamin, the chief of the people of Benjamin being Abidan the son of Gideoni,
Num 2:23 his company as listed being 35,400.
Num 2:24 All those listed of the camp of Ephraim, by their companies, were 108,100. They shall set out third on
the march.
Num 2:25 "On the north side shall be the standard of the camp of Dan by their companies, the chief of the
people of Dan being Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai,
Num 2:26 his company as listed being 62,700.
Num 2:27 And those to camp next to him shall be the tribe of Asher, the chief of the people of Asher being
Pagiel the son of Ochran,
Num 2:28 his company as listed being 41,500.
Num 2:29 Then the tribe of Naphtali, the chief of the people of Naphtali being Ahira the son of Enan,
Num 2:30 his company as listed being 53,400.
Num 2:31 All those listed of the camp of Dan were 157,600. They shall set out last, standard by standard."
Num 2:32 These are the people of Israel as listed by their fathers' houses. All those listed in the camps by theircompanies were 603,550.
Num 2:33 But the Levites were not listed among the people of Israel, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Num 2:34 Thus did the people of Israel. According to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so they camped by
their standards, and so they set out, each one in his clan, according to his fathers' house.
Num 3:1 These are the generations of Aaron and Moses at the time when the LORD spoke with Moses on
Mount Sinai.
Num 3:2 These are the names of the sons of Aaron: Nadab the firstborn, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
Num 3:3 These are the names of the sons of Aaron, the anointed priests, whom he ordained to serve as priests.
Num 3:4 But Nadab and Abihu died before the LORD when they offered unauthorized fire before the LORD in
the wilderness of Sinai, and they had no children. So Eleazar and Ithamar served as priests in the lifetime of
Aaron their father.
Num 3:5 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 3:6 "Bring the tribe of Levi near, and set them before Aaron the priest, that they may minister to him.
Num 3:7 They shall keep guard over him and over the whole congregation before the tent of meeting, as they
minister at the tabernacle.
Num 3:8 They shall guard all the furnishings of the tent of meeting, and keep guard over the people of Israel as
they minister at the tabernacle.
Num 3:9 And you shall give the Levites to Aaron and his sons; they are wholly given to him from among the
people of Israel.
Num 3:10 And you shall appoint Aaron and his sons, and they shall guard their priesthood. But if any outsider
comes near, he shall be put to death."
Num 3:11 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 3:12 "Behold, I have taken the Levites from among the people of Israel instead of every firstborn who
opens the womb among the people of Israel. The Levites shall be mine,
Num 3:13 for all the firstborn are mine. On the day that I struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, I
consecrated for my own all the firstborn in Israel, both of man and of beast. They shall be mine: I am the LORD."
Num 3:14 And the LORD spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, saying,
Num 3:15 "List the sons of Levi, by fathers' houses and by clans; every male from a month old and upward you
shall list."
Num 3:16 So Moses listed them according to the word of the LORD, as he was commanded.
Num 3:17 And these were the sons of Levi by their names: Gershon and Kohath and Merari.
Num 3:18 And these are the names of the sons of Gershon by their clans: Libni and Shimei.
Num 3:19 And the sons of Kohath by their clans: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel.
Num 3:20 And the sons of Merari by their clans: Mahli and Mushi. These are the clans of the Levites, by their
fathers' houses.
Num 3:21 To Gershon belonged the clan of the Libnites and the clan of the Shimeites; these were the clans of
the Gershonites.
Num 3:22 Their listing according to the number of all the males from a month old and upward was 7,500.
Num 3:23 The clans of the Gershonites were to camp behind the tabernacle on the west,
Num 3:24 with Eliasaph, the son of Lael as chief of the fathers' house of the Gershonites.
Num 3:25 And the guard duty of the sons of Gershon in the tent of meeting involved the tabernacle, the tent with
its covering, the screen for the entrance of the tent of meeting,
Num 3:26 the hangings of the court, the screen for the door of the court that is around the tabernacle and the
altar, and its cords- all the service connected with these.
Num 3:27 To Kohath belonged the clan of the Amramites and the clan of the Izharites and the clan of the
Hebronites and the clan of the Uzzielites; these are the clans of the Kohathites.
Num 3:28 According to the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, there were 8,600, keeping
guard over the sanctuary.
Num 3:29 The clans of the sons of Kohath were to camp on the south side of the tabernacle,
Num 3:30 with Elizaphan the son of Uzziel as chief of the fathers' house of the clans of the Kohathites.
Num 3:31 And their guard duty involved the ark, the table, the lampstand, the altars, the vessels of the
sanctuary with which the priests minister, and the screen; all the service connected with these.
Num 3:32 And Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest was to be chief over the chiefs of the Levites, and to have
oversight of those who kept guard over the sanctuary.
Num 3:33 To Merari belonged the clan of the Mahlites and the clan of the Mushites: these are the clans of
Merari.
Num 3:34 Their listing according to the number of all the males from a month old and upward was 6,200.
Num 3:35 And the chief of the fathers' house of the clans of Merari was Zuriel the son of Abihail. They were to
camp on the north side of the tabernacle.Num 3:36 And the appointed guard duty of the sons of Merari involved the frames of the tabernacle, the bars,
the pillars, the bases, and all their accessories; all the service connected with these;
Num 3:37 also the pillars around the court, with their bases and pegs and cords.
Num 3:38 Those who were to camp before the tabernacle on the east, before the tent of meeting toward the
sunrise, were Moses and Aaron and his sons, guarding the sanctuary itself, to protect the people of Israel. And
any outsider who came near was to be put to death.
Num 3:39 All those listed among the Levites, whom Moses and Aaron listed at the commandment of the LORD,
by clans, all the males from a month old and upward, were 22,000.
Num 3:40 And the LORD said to Moses, "List all the firstborn males of the people of Israel, from a month old
and upward, taking the number of their names.
Num 3:41 And you shall take the Levites for me- I am the LORD- instead of all the firstborn among the people of
Israel, and the cattle of the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the cattle of the people of Israel."
Num 3:42 So Moses listed all the firstborn among the people of Israel, as the LORD commanded him.
Num 3:43 And all the firstborn males, according to the number of names, from a month old and upward as listed
were 22,273.
Num 3:44 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 3:45 "Take the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the people of Israel, and the cattle of the Levites
instead of their cattle. The Levites shall be mine: I am the LORD.
Num 3:46 And as the redemption price for the 273 of the firstborn of the people of Israel, over and above the
number of the male Levites,
Num 3:47 you shall take five shekels per head; you shall take them according to the shekel of the sanctuary (the
shekel of twenty gerahs),
Num 3:48 and give the money to Aaron and his sons as the redemption price for those who are over."
Num 3:49 So Moses took the redemption money from those who were over and above those redeemed by the
Levites.
Num 3:50 From the firstborn of the people of Israel he took the money, 1,365 shekels, by the shekel of the
sanctuary.
Num 3:51 And Moses gave the redemption money to Aaron and his sons, according to the word of the LORD,
as the LORD commanded Moses.
Num 4:1 The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
Num 4:2 "Take a census of the sons of Kohath from among the sons of Levi, by their clans and their fathers'
houses,
Num 4:3 from thirty years old up to fifty years old, all who can come on duty, to do the work in the tent of
meeting.
Num 4:4 This is the service of the sons of Kohath in the tent of meeting: the most holy things.
Num 4:5 When the camp is to set out, Aaron and his sons shall go in and take down the veil of the screen and
cover the ark of the testimony with it.
Num 4:6 Then they shall put on it a covering of goatskin and spread on top of that a cloth all of blue, and shall
put in its poles.
Num 4:7 And over the table of the bread of the Presence they shall spread a cloth of blue and put on it the
plates, the dishes for incense, the bowls, and the flagons for the drink offering; the regular show bread also shall
be on it.
Num 4:8 Then they shall spread over them a cloth of scarlet and cover the same with a covering of goatskin,
and shall put in its poles.
Num 4:9 And they shall take a cloth of blue and cover the lampstand for the light, with its lamps, its tongs, its
trays, and all the vessels for oil with which it is supplied.
Num 4:10 And they shall put it with all its utensils in a covering of goatskin and put it on the carrying frame.
Num 4:11 And over the golden altar they shall spread a cloth of blue and cover it with a covering of goatskin,
and shall put in its poles.
Num 4:12 And they shall take all the vessels of the service that are used in the sanctuary and put them in a
cloth of blue and cover them with a covering of goatskin and put them on the carrying frame.
Num 4:13 And they shall take away the ashes from the altar and spread a purple cloth over it.
Num 4:14 And they shall put on it all the utensils of the altar, which are used for the service there, the fire pans,
the forks, the shovels, and the basins, all the utensils of the altar; and they shall spread on it a covering of
goatskin, and shall put in its poles.
Num 4:15 And when Aaron and his sons have finished covering the sanctuary and all the furnishings of the
sanctuary, as the camp sets out, after that the sons of Kohath shall come to carry these, but they must not touch
the holy things, lest they die. These are the things of the tent of meeting that the sons of Kohath are to carry.
Num 4:16 "And Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest shall have charge of the oil for the light, the fragrant incense,the regular grain offering, and the anointing oil, with the oversight of the whole tabernacle and all that is in it, of
the sanctuary and its vessels."
Num 4:17 The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
Num 4:18 "Let not the tribe of the clans of the Kohathites be destroyed from among the Levites,
Num 4:19 but deal thus with them, that they may live and not die when they come near to the most holy things:
Aaron and his sons shall go in and appoint them each to his task and to his burden,
Num 4:20 but they shall not go in to look on the holy things even for a moment, lest they die."
Num 4:21 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 4:22 "Take a census of the sons of Gershon also, by their fathers' houses and by their clans.
Num 4:23 From thirty years old up to fifty years old, you shall list them, all who can come to do duty, to do
service in the tent of meeting.
Num 4:24 This is the service of the clans of the Gershonites, in serving and bearing burdens:
Num 4:25 they shall carry the curtains of the tabernacle and the tent of meeting with its covering and the
covering of goatskin that is on top of it and the screen for the entrance of the tent of meeting
Num 4:26 and the hangings of the court and the screen for the entrance of the gate of the court that is around
the tabernacle and the altar, and their cords and all the equipment for their service. And they shall do all that
needs to be done with regard to them.
Num 4:27 All the service of the sons of the Gershonites shall be at the command of Aaron and his sons, in all
that they are to carry and in all that they have to do. And you shall assign to their charge all that they are to
carry.
Num 4:28 This is the service of the clans of the sons of the Gershonites in the tent of meeting, and their guard
duty is to be under the direction of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
Num 4:29 "As for the sons of Merari, you shall list them by their clans and their fathers' houses.
Num 4:30 From thirty years old up to fifty years old, you shall list them, everyone who can come on duty, to do
the service of the tent of meeting.
Num 4:31 And this is what they are charged to carry, as the whole of their service in the tent of meeting: the
frames of the tabernacle, with its bars, pillars, and bases,
Num 4:32 and the pillars around the court with their bases, pegs, and cords, with all their equipment and all their
accessories. And you shall list by name the objects that they are required to carry.
Num 4:33 This is the service of the clans of the sons of Merari, the whole of their service in the tent of meeting,
under the direction of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest."
Num 4:34 And Moses and Aaron and the chiefs of the congregation listed the sons of the Kohathites, by their
clans and their fathers' houses,
Num 4:35 from thirty years old up to fifty years old, everyone who could come on duty, for service in the tent of
meeting;
Num 4:36 and those listed by clans were 2,750.
Num 4:37 This was the list of the clans of the Kohathites, all who served in the tent of meeting, whom Moses
and Aaron listed according to the commandment of the LORD by Moses.
Num 4:38 Those listed of the sons of Gershon, by their clans and their fathers' houses,
Num 4:39 from thirty years old up to fifty years old, everyone who could come on duty for service in the tent of
meetingNum 4:40 those listed by their clans and their fathers' houses were 2,630.
Num 4:41 This was the list of the clans of the sons of Gershon, all who served in the tent of meeting, whom
Moses and Aaron listed according to the commandment of the LORD.
Num 4:42 Those listed of the clans of the sons of Merari, by their clans and their fathers' houses,
Num 4:43 from thirty years old up to fifty years old, everyone who could come on duty, for service in the tent of
meetingNum 4:44 those listed by clans were 3,200.
Num 4:45 This was the list of the clans of the sons of Merari, whom Moses and Aaron listed according to the
commandment of the LORD by Moses.
Num 4:46 All those who were listed of the Levites, whom Moses and Aaron and the chiefs of Israel listed, by
their clans and their fathers' houses,
Num 4:47 from thirty years old up to fifty years old, everyone who could come to do the service of ministry and
the service of bearing burdens in the tent of meeting,
Num 4:48 those listed were 8,580.
Num 4:49 According to the commandment of the LORD through Moses they were listed, each one with his task
of serving or carrying. Thus they were listed by him, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Num 5:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 5:2 "Command the people of Israel that they put out of the camp everyone who is leprous or has adischarge and everyone who is unclean through contact with the dead.
Num 5:3 You shall put out both male and female, putting them outside the camp, that they may not defile their
camp, in the midst of which I dwell."
Num 5:4 And the people of Israel did so, and put them outside the camp; as the LORD said to Moses, so the
people of Israel did.
Num 5:5 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 5:6 "Speak to the people of Israel, When a man or woman commits any of the sins that people commit by
breaking faith with the LORD, and that person realizes his guilt,
Num 5:7 he shall confess his sin that he has committed. And he shall make full restitution for his wrong, adding
a fifth to it and giving it to him to whom he did the wrong.
Num 5:8 But if the man has no next of kin to whom restitution may be made for the wrong, the restitution for
wrong shall go to the LORD for the priest, in addition to the ram of atonement with which atonement is made for
him.
Num 5:9 And every contribution, all the holy donations of the people of Israel, which they bring to the priest,
shall be his.
Num 5:10 Each one shall keep his holy donations: whatever anyone gives to the priest shall be his."
Num 5:11 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 5:12 "Speak to the people of Israel, If any man's wife goes astray and breaks faith with him,
Num 5:13 if a man lies with her sexually, and it is hidden from the eyes of her husband, and she is undetected
though she has defiled herself, and there is no witness against her, since she was not taken in the act,
Num 5:14 and if the spirit of jealousy comes over him and he is jealous of his wife who has defiled herself, or if
the spirit of jealousy comes over him and he is jealous of his wife, though she has not defiled herself,
Num 5:15 then the man shall bring his wife to the priest and bring the offering required of her, a tenth of an
ephah of barley flour. He shall pour no oil on it and put no frankincense on it, for it is a grain offering of jealousy,
a grain offering of remembrance, bringing iniquity to remembrance.
Num 5:16 "And the priest shall bring her near and set her before the LORD.
Num 5:17 And the priest shall take holy water in an earthenware vessel and take some of the dust that is on the
floor of the tabernacle and put it into the water.
Num 5:18 And the priest shall set the woman before the LORD and unbind the hair of the woman's head and
place in her hands the grain offering of remembrance, which is the grain offering of jealousy. And in his hand the
priest shall have the water of bitterness that brings the curse.
Num 5:19 Then the priest shall make her take an oath, saying, 'If no man has lain with you, and if you have not
turned aside to uncleanness while you were under your husband's authority, be free from this water of bitterness
that brings the curse.
Num 5:20 But if you have gone astray, though you are under your husband's authority, and if you have defiled
yourself, and some man other than your husband has lain with you,
Num 5:21 then' (let the priest make the woman take the oath of the curse, and say to the woman) 'the LORD
make you a curse and an oath among your people, when the LORD makes your thigh fall away and your body
swell.
Num 5:22 May this water that brings the curse pass into your bowels and make your womb swell and your thigh
fall away.' And the woman shall say, 'Amen, Amen.'
Num 5:23 "Then the priest shall write these curses in a book and wash them off into the water of bitterness.
Num 5:24 And he shall make the woman drink the water of bitterness that brings the curse, and the water that
brings the curse shall enter into her and cause bitter pain.
Num 5:25 And the priest shall take the grain offering of jealousy out of the woman's hand and shall wave the
grain offering before the LORD and bring it to the altar.
Num 5:26 And the priest shall take a handful of the grain offering, as its memorial portion, and burn it on the
altar, and afterward shall make the woman drink the water.
Num 5:27 And when he has made her drink the water, then, if she has defiled herself and has broken faith with
her husband, the water that brings the curse shall enter into her and cause bitter pain, and her womb shall swell,
and her thigh shall fall away, and the woman shall become a curse among her people.
Num 5:28 But if the woman has not defiled herself and is clean, then she shall be free and shall conceive
children.
Num 5:29 "This is the law in cases of jealousy, when a wife, though under her husband's authority, goes astray
and defiles herself,
Num 5:30 or when the spirit of jealousy comes over a man and he is jealous of his wife. Then he shall set the
woman before the LORD, and the priest shall carry out for her all this law.
Num 5:31 The man shall be free from iniquity, but the woman shall bear her iniquity."
Num 6:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,Num 6:2 "Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When either a man or a woman makes a special vow,
the vow of a Nazirite, to separate himself to the LORD,
Num 6:3 he shall separate himself from wine and strong drink. He shall drink no vinegar made from wine or
strong drink and shall not drink any juice of grapes or eat grapes, fresh or dried.
Num 6:4 All the days of his separation he shall eat nothing that is produced by the grapevine, not even the
seeds or the skins.
Num 6:5 "All the days of his vow of separation, no razor shall touch his head. Until the time is completed for
which he separates himself to the LORD, he shall be holy. He shall let the locks of hair of his head grow long.
Num 6:6 "All the days that he separates himself to the LORD he shall not go near a dead body.
Num 6:7 Not even for his father or for his mother, for brother or sister, if they die, shall he make himself unclean,
because his separation to God is on his head.
Num 6:8 All the days of his separation he is holy to the LORD.
Num 6:9 "And if any man dies very suddenly beside him and he defiles his consecrated head, then he shall
shave his head on the day of his cleansing; on the seventh day he shall shave it.
Num 6:10 On the eighth day he shall bring two turtledoves or two pigeons to the priest to the entrance of the
tent of meeting,
Num 6:11 and the priest shall offer one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering, and make atonement
for him, because he sinned by reason of the dead body. And he shall consecrate his head that same day
Num 6:12 and separate himself to the LORD for the days of his separation and bring a male lamb a year old for
a guilt offering. But the previous period shall be void, because his separation was defiled.
Num 6:13 "And this is the law for the Nazirite, when the time of his separation has been completed: he shall be
brought to the entrance of the tent of meeting,
Num 6:14 and he shall bring his gift to the LORD, one male lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering,
and one ewe lamb a year old without blemish as a sin offering, and one ram without blemish as a peace offering,
Num 6:15 and a basket of unleavened bread, loaves of fine flour mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers
smeared with oil, and their grain offering and their drink offerings.
Num 6:16 And the priest shall bring them before the LORD and offer his sin offering and his burnt offering,
Num 6:17 and he shall offer the ram as a sacrifice of peace offering to the LORD, with the basket of unleavened
bread. The priest shall offer also its grain offering and its drink offering.
Num 6:18 And the Nazirite shall shave his consecrated head at the entrance of the tent of meeting and shall
take the hair from his consecrated head and put it on the fire that is under the sacrifice of the peace offering.
Num 6:19 And the priest shall take the shoulder of the ram, when it is boiled, and one unleavened loaf out of the
basket and one unleavened wafer, and shall put them on the hands of the Nazirite, after he has shaved the hair
of his consecration,
Num 6:20 and the priest shall wave them for a wave offering before the LORD. They are a holy portion for the
priest, together with the breast that is waved and the thigh that is contributed. And after that the Nazirite may
drink wine.
Num 6:21 "This is the law of the Nazirite. But if he vows an offering to the LORD above his Nazirite vow, as he
can afford, in exact accordance with the vow that he takes, then he shall do in addition to the law of the Nazirite."
Num 6:22 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 6:23 "Speak to Aaron and his sons, saying, Thus you shall bless the people of Israel: you shall say to
them,
Num 6:24 The LORD bless you and keep you;
Num 6:25 the LORD make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you;
Num 6:26 the LORD lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace.
Num 6:27 "So shall they put my name upon the people of Israel, and I will bless them."
Num 7:1 On the day when Moses had finished setting up the tabernacle and had anointed and consecrated it
with all its furnishings and had anointed and consecrated the altar with all its utensils,
Num 7:2 the chiefs of Israel, heads of their fathers' houses, who were the chiefs of the tribes, who were over
those who were listed, approached
Num 7:3 and brought their offerings before the LORD, six wagons and twelve oxen, a wagon for every two of
the chiefs, and for each one an ox. They brought them before the tabernacle.
Num 7:4 Then the LORD said to Moses,
Num 7:5 "Accept these from them, that they may be used in the service of the tent of meeting, and give them to
the Levites, to each man according to his service."
Num 7:6 So Moses took the wagons and the oxen and gave them to the Levites.
Num 7:7 Two wagons and four oxen he gave to the sons of Gershon, according to their service.
Num 7:8 And four wagons and eight oxen he gave to the sons of Merari, according to their service, under the
direction of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.Num 7:9 But to the sons of Kohath he gave none, because they were charged with the service of the holy things
that had to be carried on the shoulder.
Num 7:10 And the chiefs offered offerings for the dedication of the altar on the day it was anointed; and the
chiefs offered their offering before the altar.
Num 7:11 And the LORD said to Moses, "They shall offer their offerings, one chief each day, for the dedication
of the altar."
Num 7:12 He who offered his offering the first day was Nahshon the son of Amminadab, of the tribe of Judah.
Num 7:13 And his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels,
according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Num 7:14 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Num 7:15 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Num 7:16 one male goat for a sin offering;
Num 7:17 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a
year old. This was the offering of Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
Num 7:18 On the second day Nethanel the son of Zuar, the chief of Issachar, made an offering.
Num 7:19 He offered for his offering one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70
shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Num 7:20 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Num 7:21 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Num 7:22 one male goat for a sin offering;
Num 7:23 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a
year old. This was the offering of Nethanel the son of Zuar.
Num 7:24 On the third day Eliab the son of Helon, the chief of the people of Zebulun:
Num 7:25 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels,
according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Num 7:26 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Num 7:27 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Num 7:28 one male goat for a sin offering;
Num 7:29 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a
year old. This was the offering of Eliab the son of Helon.
Num 7:30 On the fourth day Elizur the son of Shedeur, the chief of the people of Reuben:
Num 7:31 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels,
according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Num 7:32 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Num 7:33 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Num 7:34 one male goat for a sin offering;
Num 7:35 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a
year old. This was the offering of Elizur the son of Shedeur.
Num 7:36 On the fifth day Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai, the chief of the people of Simeon:
Num 7:37 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels,
according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Num 7:38 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Num 7:39 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Num 7:40 one male goat for a sin offering;
Num 7:41 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a
year old. This was the offering of Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
Num 7:42 On the sixth day Eliasaph the son of Deuel, the chief of the people of Gad:
Num 7:43 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels,
according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Num 7:44 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Num 7:45 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Num 7:46 one male goat for a sin offering;
Num 7:47 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a
year old. This was the offering of Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
Num 7:48 On the seventh day Elishama the son of Ammihud, the chief of the people of Ephraim:
Num 7:49 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels,
according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Num 7:50 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Num 7:51 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;Num 7:52 one male goat for a sin offering;
Num 7:53 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a
year old. This was the offering of Elishama the son of Ammihud.
Num 7:54 On the eighth day Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur, the chief of the people of Manasseh:
Num 7:55 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels,
according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Num 7:56 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Num 7:57 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Num 7:58 one male goat for a sin offering;
Num 7:59 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a
year old. This was the offering of Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
Num 7:60 On the ninth day Abidan the son of Gideoni, the chief of the people of Benjamin:
Num 7:61 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels,
according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Num 7:62 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Num 7:63 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Num 7:64 one male goat for a sin offering;
Num 7:65 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a
year old. This was the offering of Abidan the son of Gideoni.
Num 7:66 On the tenth day Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai, the chief of the people of Dan:
Num 7:67 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels,
according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Num 7:68 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Num 7:69 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Num 7:70 one male goat for a sin offering;
Num 7:71 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a
year old. This was the offering of Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
Num 7:72 On the eleventh day Pagiel the son of Ochran, the chief of the people of Asher:
Num 7:73 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels,
according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Num 7:74 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Num 7:75 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Num 7:76 one male goat for a sin offering;
Num 7:77 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a
year old. This was the offering of Pagiel the son of Ochran.
Num 7:78 On the twelfth day Ahira the son of Enan, the chief of the people of Naphtali:
Num 7:79 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels,
according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Num 7:80 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Num 7:81 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Num 7:82 one male goat for a sin offering;
Num 7:83 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a
year old. This was the offering of Ahira the son of Enan.
Num 7:84 This was the dedication offering for the altar on the day when it was anointed, from the chiefs of
Israel: twelve silver plates, twelve silver basins, twelve golden dishes,
Num 7:85 each silver plate weighing 130 shekels and each basin 70, all the silver of the vessels 2,400 shekels
according to the shekel of the sanctuary,
Num 7:86 the twelve golden dishes, full of incense, weighing 10 shekels apiece according to the shekel of the
sanctuary, all the gold of the dishes being 120 shekels;
Num 7:87 all the cattle for the burnt offering twelve bulls, twelve rams, twelve male lambs a year old, with their
grain offering; and twelve male goats for a sin offering;
Num 7:88 and all the cattle for the sacrifice of peace offerings twenty-four bulls, the rams sixty, the male goats
sixty, the male lambs a year old sixty. This was the dedication offering for the altar after it was anointed.
Num 7:89 And when Moses went into the tent of meeting to speak with the LORD, he heard the voice speaking
to him from above the mercy seat that was on the ark of the testimony, from between the two cherubim; and it
spoke to him.
Num 8:1 Now the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 8:2 "Speak to Aaron and say to him, When you set up the lamps, the seven lamps shall give light in front
of the lampstand."Num 8:3 And Aaron did so: he set up its lamps in front of the lampstand, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Num 8:4 And this was the workmanship of the lampstand, hammered work of gold. From its base to its flowers,
it was hammered work; according to the pattern that the LORD had shown Moses, so he made the lampstand.
Num 8:5 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 8:6 "Take the Levites from among the people of Israel and cleanse them.
Num 8:7 Thus you shall do to them to cleanse them: sprinkle the water of purification upon them, and let them
go with a razor over all their body, and wash their clothes and cleanse themselves.
Num 8:8 Then let them take a bull from the herd and its grain offering of fine flour mixed with oil, and you shall
take another bull from the herd for a sin offering.
Num 8:9 And you shall bring the Levites before the tent of meeting and assemble the whole congregation of the
people of Israel.
Num 8:10 When you bring the Levites before the LORD, the people of Israel shall lay their hands on the Levites,
Num 8:11 and Aaron shall offer the Levites before the LORD as a wave offering from the people of Israel, that
they may do the service of the LORD.
Num 8:12 Then the Levites shall lay their hands on the heads of the bulls, and you shall offer the one for a sin
offering and the other for a burnt offering to the LORD to make atonement for the Levites.
Num 8:13 And you shall set the Levites before Aaron and his sons, and shall offer them as a wave offering to
the LORD.
Num 8:14 "Thus you shall separate the Levites from among the people of Israel, and the Levites shall be mine.
Num 8:15 And after that the Levites shall go in to serve at the tent of meeting, when you have cleansed them
and offered them as a wave offering.
Num 8:16 For they are wholly given to me from among the people of Israel. Instead of all who open the womb,
the firstborn of all the people of Israel, I have taken them for myself.
Num 8:17 For all the firstborn among the people of Israel are mine, both of man and of beast. On the day that I
struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt I consecrated them for myself,
Num 8:18 and I have taken the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the people of Israel.
Num 8:19 And I have given the Levites as a gift to Aaron and his sons from among the people of Israel, to do
the service for the people of Israel at the tent of meeting and to make atonement for the people of Israel, that
there may be no plague among the people of Israel when the people of Israel come near the sanctuary."
Num 8:20 Thus did Moses and Aaron and all the congregation of the people of Israel to the Levites. According
to all that the LORD commanded Moses concerning the Levites, the people of Israel did to them.
Num 8:21 And the Levites purified themselves from sin and washed their clothes, and Aaron offered them as a
wave offering before the LORD, and Aaron made atonement for them to cleanse them.
Num 8:22 And after that the Levites went in to do their service in the tent of meeting before Aaron and his sons;
as the LORD had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so they did to them.
Num 8:23 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 8:24 "This applies to the Levites: from twenty-five years old and upward they shall come to do duty in the
service of the tent of meeting.
Num 8:25 And from the age of fifty years they shall withdraw from the duty of the service and serve no more.
Num 8:26 They minister to their brothers in the tent of meeting by keeping guard, but they shall do no service.
Thus shall you do to the Levites in assigning their duties."
Num 9:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after
they had come out of the land of Egypt, saying,
Num 9:2 "Let the people of Israel keep the Passover at its appointed time.
Num 9:3 On the fourteenth day of this month, at twilight, you shall keep it at its appointed time; according to all
its statutes and all its rules you shall keep it."
Num 9:4 So Moses told the people of Israel that they should keep the Passover.
Num 9:5 And they kept the Passover in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, at twilight, in the
wilderness of Sinai; according to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so the people of Israel did.
Num 9:6 And there were certain men who were unclean through touching a dead body, so that they could not
keep the Passover on that day, and they came before Moses and Aaron on that day.
Num 9:7 And those men said to him, "We are unclean through touching a dead body. Why are we kept from
bringing the LORD's offering at its appointed time among the people of Israel?"
Num 9:8 And Moses said to them, "Wait, that I may hear what the LORD will command concerning you."
Num 9:9 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 9:10 "Speak to the people of Israel, saying, If any one of you or of your descendants is unclean through
touching a dead body, or is on a long journey, he shall still keep the Passover to the LORD.
Num 9:11 In the second month on the fourteenth day at twilight they shall keep it. They shall eat it with
unleavened bread and bitter herbs.Num 9:12 They shall leave none of it until the morning, nor break any of its bones; according to all the statute
for the Passover they shall keep it.
Num 9:13 But if anyone who is clean and is not on a journey fails to keep the Passover, that person shall be cut
off from his people because he did not bring the LORD's offering at its appointed time; that man shall bear his
sin.
Num 9:14 And if a stranger sojourns among you and would keep the Passover to the LORD, according to the
statute of the Passover and according to its rule, so shall he do. You shall have one statute, both for the
sojourner and for the native."
Num 9:15 On the day that the tabernacle was set up, the cloud covered the tabernacle, the tent of the
testimony. And at evening it was over the tabernacle like the appearance of fire until morning.
Num 9:16 So it was always: the cloud covered it by day and the appearance of fire by night.
Num 9:17 And whenever the cloud lifted from over the tent, after that the people of Israel set out, and in the
place where the cloud settled down, there the people of Israel camped.
Num 9:18 At the command of the LORD the people of Israel set out, and at the command of the LORD they
camped. As long as the cloud rested over the tabernacle, they remained in camp.
Num 9:19 Even when the cloud continued over the tabernacle many days, the people of Israel kept the charge
of the LORD and did not set out.
Num 9:20 Sometimes the cloud was a few days over the tabernacle, and according to the command of the
LORD they remained in camp; then according to the command of the LORD they set out.
Num 9:21 And sometimes the cloud remained from evening until morning. And when the cloud lifted in the
morning, they set out, or if it continued for a day and a night, when the cloud lifted they set out.
Num 9:22 Whether it was two days, or a month, or a longer time, that the cloud continued over the tabernacle,
abiding there, the people of Israel remained in camp and did not set out, but when it lifted they set out.
Num 9:23 At the command of the LORD they camped, and at the command of the LORD they set out. They
kept the charge of the LORD, at the command of the LORD by Moses.
Num 10:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 10:2 "Make two silver trumpets. Of hammered work you shall make them, and you shall use them for
summoning the congregation and for breaking camp.
Num 10:3 And when both are blown, all the congregation shall gather themselves to you at the entrance of the
tent of meeting.
Num 10:4 But if they blow only one, then the chiefs, the heads of the tribes of Israel, shall gather themselves to
you.
Num 10:5 When you blow an alarm, the camps that are on the east side shall set out.
Num 10:6 And when you blow an alarm the second time, the camps that are on the south side shall set out. An
alarm is to be blown whenever they are to set out.
Num 10:7 But when the assembly is to be gathered together, you shall blow a long blast, but you shall not
sound an alarm.
Num 10:8 And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow the trumpets. The trumpets shall be to you for a
perpetual statute throughout your generations.
Num 10:9 And when you go to war in your land against the adversary who oppresses you, then you shall sound
an alarm with the trumpets, that you may be remembered before the LORD your God, and you shall be saved
from your enemies.
Num 10:10 On the day of your gladness also, and at your appointed feasts and at the beginnings of your
months, you shall blow the trumpets over your burnt offerings and over the sacrifices of your peace offerings.
They shall be a reminder of you before your God: I am the LORD your God."
Num 10:11 In the second year, in the second month, on the twentieth day of the month, the cloud lifted from
over the tabernacle of the testimony,
Num 10:12 and the people of Israel set out by stages from the wilderness of Sinai. And the cloud settled down
in the wilderness of Paran.
Num 10:13 They set out for the first time at the command of the LORD by Moses.
Num 10:14 The standard of the camp of the people of Judah set out first by their companies, and over their
company was Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
Num 10:15 And over the company of the tribe of the people of Issachar was Nethanel the son of Zuar.
Num 10:16 And over the company of the tribe of the people of Zebulun was Eliab the son of Helon.
Num 10:17 And when the tabernacle was taken down, the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari, who carried
the tabernacle, set out.
Num 10:18 And the standard of the camp of Reuben set out by their companies, and over their company was
Elizur the son of Shedeur.
Num 10:19 And over the company of the tribe of the people of Simeon was Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.Num 10:20 And over the company of the tribe of the people of Gad was Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
Num 10:21 Then the Kohathites set out, carrying the holy things, and the tabernacle was set up before their
arrival.
Num 10:22 And the standard of the camp of the people of Ephraim set out by their companies, and over their
company was Elishama the son of Ammihud.
Num 10:23 And over the company of the tribe of the people of Manasseh was Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
Num 10:24 And over the company of the tribe of the people of Benjamin was Abidan the son of Gideoni.
Num 10:25 Then the standard of the camp of the people of Dan, acting as the rear guard of all the camps, set
out by their companies, and over their company was Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
Num 10:26 And over the company of the tribe of the people of Asher was Pagiel the son of Ochran.
Num 10:27 And over the company of the tribe of the people of Naphtali was Ahira the son of Enan.
Num 10:28 This was the order of march of the people of Israel by their companies, when they set out.
Num 10:29 And Moses said to Hobab the son of Reuel the Midianite, Moses' father-in-law, "We are setting out
for the place of which the LORD said, 'I will give it to you.' Come with us, and we will do good to you, for the
LORD has promised good to Israel."
Num 10:30 But he said to him, "I will not go. I will depart to my own land and to my kindred."
Num 10:31 And he said, "Please do not leave us, for you know where we should camp in the wilderness, and
you will serve as eyes for us.
Num 10:32 And if you do go with us, whatever good the LORD will do to us, the same will we do to you."
Num 10:33 So they set out from the mount of the LORD three days' journey. And the ark of the covenant of the
LORD went before them three days' journey, to seek out a resting place for them.
Num 10:34 And the cloud of the LORD was over them by day, whenever they set out from the camp.
Num 10:35 And whenever the ark set out, Moses said, "Arise, O LORD, and let your enemies be scattered, and
let those who hate you flee before you."
Num 10:36 And when it rested, he said, "Return, O LORD, to the ten thousand thousands of Israel."
Num 11:1 And the people complained in the hearing of the LORD about their misfortunes, and when the LORD
heard it, his anger was kindled, and the fire of the LORD burned among them and consumed some outlying
parts of the camp.
Num 11:2 Then the people cried out to Moses, and Moses prayed to the LORD, and the fire died down.
Num 11:3 So the name of that place was called Taberah, because the fire of the LORD burned among them.
Num 11:4 Now the rabble that was among them had a strong craving. And the people of Israel also wept again
and said, "Oh that we had meat to eat!
Num 11:5 We remember the fish we ate in Egypt that cost nothing, the cucumbers, the melons, the leeks, the
onions, and the garlic.
Num 11:6 But now our strength is dried up, and there is nothing at all but this manna to look at."
Num 11:7 Now the manna was like coriander seed, and its appearance like that of bdellium.
Num 11:8 The people went about and gathered it and ground it in hand-mills or beat it in mortars and boiled it in
pots and made cakes of it. And the taste of it was like the taste of cakes baked with oil.
Num 11:9 When the dew fell upon the camp in the night, the manna fell with it.
Num 11:10 Moses heard the people weeping throughout their clans, everyone at the door of his tent. And the
anger of the LORD blazed hotly, and Moses was displeased.
Num 11:11 Moses said to the LORD, "Why have you dealt ill with your servant? And why have I not found favor
in your sight, that you lay the burden of all this people on me?
Num 11:12 Did I conceive all this people? Did I give them birth, that you should say to me, 'Carry them in your
bosom, as a nurse carries a nursing child,' to the land that you swore to give their fathers?
Num 11:13 Where am I to get meat to give to all this people? For they weep before me and say, 'Give us meat,
that we may eat.'
Num 11:14 I am not able to carry all this people alone; the burden is too heavy for me.
Num 11:15 If you will treat me like this, kill me at once, if I find favor in your sight, that I may not see my
wretchedness."
Num 11:16 Then the LORD said to Moses, "Gather for me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom you know
to be the elders of the people and officers over them, and bring them to the tent of meeting, and let them take
their stand there with you.
Num 11:17 And I will come down and talk with you there. And I will take some of the Spirit that is on you and put
it on them, and they shall bear the burden of the people with you, so that you may not bear it yourself alone.
Num 11:18 And say to the people, 'Consecrate yourselves for tomorrow, and you shall eat meat, for you have
wept in the hearing of the LORD, saying, "Who will give us meat to eat? For it was better for us in Egypt."
Therefore the LORD will give you meat, and you shall eat.
Num 11:19 You shall not eat just one day, or two days, or five days, or ten days, or twenty days,Num 11:20 but a whole month, until it comes out at your nostrils and becomes loathsome to you, because you
have rejected the LORD who is among you and have wept before him, saying, "Why did we come out of
Egypt?"'"
Num 11:21 But Moses said, "The people among whom I am number six hundred thousand on foot, and you
have said, 'I will give them meat, that they may eat a whole month!'
Num 11:22 Shall flocks and herds be slaughtered for them, and be enough for them? Or shall all the fish of the
sea be gathered together for them, and be enough for them?"
Num 11:23 And the LORD said to Moses, "Is the LORD's hand shortened? Now you shall see whether my word
will come true for you or not."
Num 11:24 So Moses went out and told the people the words of the LORD. And he gathered seventy men of the
elders of the people and placed them around the tent.
Num 11:25 Then the LORD came down in the cloud and spoke to him, and took some of the Spirit that was on
him and put it on the seventy elders. And as soon as the Spirit rested on them, they prophesied. But they did not
continue doing it.
Num 11:26 Now two men remained in the camp, one named Eldad, and the other named Medad, and the Spirit
rested on them. They were among those registered, but they had not gone out to the tent, and so they
prophesied in the camp.
Num 11:27 And a young man ran and told Moses, "Eldad and Medad are prophesying in the camp."
Num 11:28 And Joshua the son of Nun, the assistant of Moses from his youth, said, "My lord Moses, stop
them."
Num 11:29 But Moses said to him, "Are you jealous for my sake? Would that all the LORD's people were
prophets, that the LORD would put his Spirit on them!"
Num 11:30 And Moses and the elders of Israel returned to the camp.
Num 11:31 Then a wind from the LORD sprang up, and it brought quail from the sea and let them fall beside the
camp, about a day's journey on this side and a day's journey on the other side, around the camp, and about two
cubits above the ground.
Num 11:32 And the people rose all that day and all night and all the next day, and gathered the quail. Those
who gathered least gathered ten homers. And they spread them out for themselves all around the camp.
Num 11:33 While the meat was yet between their teeth, before it was consumed, the anger of the LORD was
kindled against the people, and the LORD struck down the people with a very great plague.
Num 11:34 Therefore the name of that place was called Kibroth-hattaavah, because there they buried the
people who had the craving.
Num 11:35 From Kibroth-hattaavah the people journeyed to Hazeroth, and they remained at Hazeroth.
Num 12:1 Miriam and Aaron spoke against Moses because of the Cushite woman whom he had married, for he
had married a Cushite woman.
Num 12:2 And they said, "Has the LORD indeed spoken only through Moses? Has he not spoken through us
also?" And the LORD heard it.
Num 12:3 Now the man Moses was very meek, more than all people who were on the face of the earth.
Num 12:4 And suddenly the LORD said to Moses and to Aaron and Miriam, "Come out, you three, to the tent of
meeting." And the three of them came out.
Num 12:5 And the LORD came down in a pillar of cloud and stood at the entrance of the tent and called Aaron
and Miriam, and they both came forward.
Num 12:6 And he said, "Hear my words: If there is a prophet among you, I the LORD make myself known to him
in a vision; I speak with him in a dream.
Num 12:7 Not so with my servant Moses. He is faithful in all my house.
Num 12:8 With him I speak mouth to mouth, clearly, and not in riddles, and he beholds the form of the LORD.
Why then were you not afraid to speak against my servant Moses?"
Num 12:9 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against them, and he departed.
Num 12:10 When the cloud removed from over the tent, behold, Miriam was leprous, like snow. And Aaron
turned toward Miriam, and behold, she was leprous.
Num 12:11 And Aaron said to Moses, "Oh, my lord, do not punish us because we have done foolishly and have
sinned.
Num 12:12 Let her not be as one dead, whose flesh is half eaten away when he comes out of his mother's
womb."
Num 12:13 And Moses cried to the LORD, "O God, please heal her- please."
Num 12:14 But the LORD said to Moses, "If her father had but spit in her face, should she not be shamed seven
days? Let her be shut outside the camp seven days, and after that she may be brought in again."
Num 12:15 So Miriam was shut outside the camp seven days, and the people did not set out on the march till
Miriam was brought in again.Num 12:16 After that the people set out from Hazeroth, and camped in the wilderness of Paran.
Num 13:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 13:2 "Send men to spy out the land of Canaan, which I am giving to the people of Israel. From each tribe
of their fathers you shall send a man, every one a chief among them."
Num 13:3 So Moses sent them from the wilderness of Paran, according to the command of the LORD, all of
them men who were heads of the people of Israel.
Num 13:4 And these were their names: From the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the son of Zaccur;
Num 13:5 from the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori;
Num 13:6 from the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh;
Num 13:7 from the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph;
Num 13:8 from the tribe of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Nun;
Num 13:9 from the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu;
Num 13:10 from the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi;
Num 13:11 from the tribe of Joseph (that is, from the tribe of Manasseh), Gaddi the son of Susi;
Num 13:12 from the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli;
Num 13:13 from the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael;
Num 13:14 from the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi;
Num 13:15 from the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi.
Num 13:16 These were the names of the men whom Moses sent to spy out the land. And Moses called Hoshea
the son of Nun Joshua.
Num 13:17 Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan and said to them, "Go up into the Negeb and go up
into the hill country,
Num 13:18 and see what the land is, and whether the people who dwell in it are strong or weak, whether they
are few or many,
Num 13:19 and whether the land that they dwell in is good or bad, and whether the cities that they dwell in are
camps or strongholds,
Num 13:20 and whether the land is rich or poor, and whether there are trees in it or not. Be of good courage and
bring some of the fruit of the land." Now the time was the season of the first ripe grapes.
Num 13:21 So they went up and spied out the land from the wilderness of Zin to Rehob, near Lebo-hamath.
Num 13:22 They went up into the Negeb and came to Hebron. Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the descendants
of Anak, were there. ( Hebron was built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.)
Num 13:23 And they came to the Valley of Eshcol and cut down from there a branch with a single cluster of
grapes, and they carried it on a pole between two of them; they also brought some pomegranates and figs.
Num 13:24 That place was called the Valley of Eshcol, because of the cluster that the people of Israel cut down
from there.
Num 13:25 At the end of forty days they returned from spying out the land.
Num 13:26 And they came to Moses and Aaron and to all the congregation of the people of Israel in the
wilderness of Paran, at Kadesh. They brought back word to them and to all the congregation, and showed them
the fruit of the land.
Num 13:27 And they told him, "We came to the land to which you sent us. It flows with milk and honey, and this
is its fruit.
Num 13:28 However, the people who dwell in the land are strong, and the cities are fortified and very large. And
besides, we saw the descendants of Anak there.
Num 13:29 The Amalekites dwell in the land of the Negeb. The Hittites, the Jebusites, and the Amorites dwell in
the hill country. And the Canaanites dwell by the sea, and along the Jordan."
Num 13:30 But Caleb quieted the people before Moses and said, "Let us go up at once and occupy it, for we
are well able to overcome it."
Num 13:31 Then the men who had gone up with him said, "We are not able to go up against the people, for they
are stronger than we are."
Num 13:32 So they brought to the people of Israel a bad report of the land that they had spied out, saying, "The
land, through which we have gone to spy it out, is a land that devours its inhabitants, and all the people that we
saw in it are of great height.
Num 13:33 And there we saw the Nephilim (the sons of Anak, who come from the Nephilim), and we seemed to
ourselves like grasshoppers, and so we seemed to them."
Num 14:1 Then all the congregation raised a loud cry, and the people wept that night.
Num 14:2 And all the people of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron. The whole congregation said to
them, "Would that we had died in the land of Egypt! Or would that we had died in this wilderness!
Num 14:3 Why is the LORD bringing us into this land, to fall by the sword? Our wives and our little ones will
become a prey. Would it not be better for us to go back to Egypt?"Num 14:4 And they said to one another, "Let us choose a leader and go back to Egypt."
Num 14:5 Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assembly of the congregation of the people of
Israel.
Num 14:6 And Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, who were among those who had spied
out the land, tore their clothes
Num 14:7 and said to all the congregation of the people of Israel, "The land, which we passed through to spy it
out, is an exceedingly good land.
Num 14:8 If the LORD delights in us, he will bring us into this land and give it to us, a land that flows with milk
and honey.
Num 14:9 Only do not rebel against the LORD. And do not fear the people of the land, for they are bread for us.
Their protection is removed from them, and the LORD is with us; do not fear them."
Num 14:10 Then all the congregation said to stone them with stones. But the glory of the LORD appeared at the
tent of meeting to all the people of Israel.
Num 14:11 And the LORD said to Moses, "How long will this people despise me? And how long will they not
believe in me, in spite of all the signs that I have done among them?
Num 14:12 I will strike them with the pestilence and disinherit them, and I will make of you a nation greater and
mightier than they."
Num 14:13 But Moses said to the LORD, "Then the Egyptians will hear of it, for you brought up this people in
your might from among them,
Num 14:14 and they will tell the inhabitants of this land. They have heard that you, O LORD, are in the midst of
this people. For you, O LORD, are seen face to face, and your cloud stands over them and you go before them,
in a pillar of cloud by day and in a pillar of fire by night.
Num 14:15 Now if you kill this people as one man, then the nations who have heard your fame will say,
Num 14:16 'It is because the LORD was not able to bring this people into the land that he swore to give to them
that he has killed them in the wilderness.'
Num 14:17 And now, please let the power of the Lord be great as you have promised, saying,
Num 14:18 'The LORD is slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love, forgiving iniquity and transgression,
but he will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, to the third and the
fourth generation.'
Num 14:19 Please pardon the iniquity of this people, according to the greatness of your steadfast love, just as
you have forgiven this people, from Egypt until now."
Num 14:20 Then the LORD said, "I have pardoned, according to your word.
Num 14:21 But truly, as I live, and as all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the LORD,
Num 14:22 none of the men who have seen my glory and my signs that I did in Egypt and in the wilderness, and
yet have put me to the test these ten times and have not obeyed my voice,
Num 14:23 shall see the land that I swore to give to their fathers. And none of those who despised me shall see
it.
Num 14:24 But my servant Caleb, because he has a different spirit and has followed me fully, I will bring into the
land into which he went, and his descendants shall possess it.
Num 14:25 Now, since the Amalekites and the Canaanites dwell in the valleys, turn tomorrow and set out for the
wilderness by the way to the Red Sea."
Num 14:26 And the LORD spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
Num 14:27 "How long shall this wicked congregation grumble against me? I have heard the grumblings of the
people of Israel, which they grumble against me.
Num 14:28 Say to them, 'As I live, declares the LORD, what you have said in my hearing I will do to you:
Num 14:29 your dead bodies shall fall in this wilderness, and of all your number, listed in the census from
twenty years old and upward, who have grumbled against me,
Num 14:30 not one shall come into the land where I swore that I would make you dwell, except Caleb the son of
Jephunneh and Joshua the son of Nun.
Num 14:31 But your little ones, who you said would become a prey, I will bring in, and they shall know the land
that you have rejected.
Num 14:32 But as for you, your dead bodies shall fall in this wilderness.
Num 14:33 And your children shall be shepherds in the wilderness forty years and shall suffer for your
faithlessness, until the last of your dead bodies lies in the wilderness.
Num 14:34 According to the number of the days in which you spied out the land, forty days, a year for each day,
you shall bear your iniquity forty years, and you shall know my displeasure.'
Num 14:35 I, the LORD, have spoken. Surely this will I do to all this wicked congregation who are gathered
together against me: in this wilderness they shall come to a full end, and there they shall die."
Num 14:36 And the men whom Moses sent to spy out the land, who returned and made all the congregationgrumble against him by bringing up a bad report about the landNum 14:37 the men who brought up a bad report of the land- died by plague before the LORD.
Num 14:38 Of those men who went to spy out the land, only Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of
Jephunneh remained alive.
Num 14:39 When Moses told these words to all the people of Israel, the people mourned greatly.
Num 14:40 And they rose early in the morning and went up to the heights of the hill country, saying, "Here we
are. We will go up to the place that the LORD has promised, for we have sinned."
Num 14:41 But Moses said, "Why now are you transgressing the command of the LORD, when that will not
succeed?
Num 14:42 Do not go up, for the Lord is not among you, lest you be struck down before your enemies.
Num 14:43 For there the Amalekites and the Canaanites are facing you, and you shall fall by the sword.
Because you have turned back from following the LORD, the LORD will not be with you."
Num 14:44 But they presumed to go up to the heights of the hill country, although neither the ark of the
covenant of the LORD nor Moses departed out of the camp.
Num 14:45 Then the Amalekites and the Canaanites who lived in that hill country came down and defeated
them and pursued them, even to Hormah.
Num 15:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 15:2 "Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land you are to inhabit,
which I am giving you,
Num 15:3 and you offer to the LORD from the herd or from the flock a food offering or a burnt offering or a
sacrifice, to fulfill a vow or as a freewill offering or at your appointed feasts, to make a pleasing aroma to the
LORD,
Num 15:4 then he who brings his offering shall offer to the LORD a grain offering of a tenth of an ephah of fine
flour, mixed with a quarter of a hin of oil;
Num 15:5 and you shall offer with the burnt offering, or for the sacrifice, a quarter of a hin of wine for the drink
offering for each lamb.
Num 15:6 Or for a ram, you shall offer for a grain offering two tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with a third
of a hin of oil.
Num 15:7 And for the drink offering you shall offer a third of a hin of wine, a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
Num 15:8 And when you offer a bull as a burnt offering or sacrifice, to fulfill a vow or for peace offerings to the
LORD,
Num 15:9 then one shall offer with the bull a grain offering of three tenths of an ephah of fine flour, mixed with
half a hin of oil.
Num 15:10 And you shall offer for the drink offering half a hin of wine, as a food offering, a pleasing aroma to
the LORD.
Num 15:11 "Thus it shall be done for each bull or ram, or for each lamb or young goat.
Num 15:12 As many as you offer, so shall you do with each one, as many as there are.
Num 15:13 Every native Israelite shall do these things in this way, in offering a food offering, with a pleasing
aroma to the LORD.
Num 15:14 And if a stranger is sojourning with you, or anyone is living permanently among you, and he wishes
to offer a food offering, with a pleasing aroma to the LORD, he shall do as you do.
Num 15:15 For the assembly, there shall be one statute for you and for the stranger who sojourns with you, a
statute forever throughout your generations. You and the sojourner shall be alike before the LORD.
Num 15:16 One law and one rule shall be for you and for the stranger who sojourns with you."
Num 15:17 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 15:18 "Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land to which I bring you
Num 15:19 and when you eat of the bread of the land, you shall present a contribution to the LORD.
Num 15:20 Of the first of your dough you shall present a loaf as a contribution; like a contribution from the
threshing floor, so shall you present it.
Num 15:21 Some of the first of your dough you shall give to the LORD as a contribution throughout your
generations.
Num 15:22 "But if you sin unintentionally, and do not observe all these commandments that the LORD has
spoken to Moses,
Num 15:23 all that the LORD has commanded you by Moses, from the day that the LORD gave commandment,
and onward throughout your generations,
Num 15:24 then if it was done unintentionally without the knowledge of the congregation, all the congregation
shall offer one bull from the herd for a burnt offering, a pleasing aroma to the LORD, with its grain offering and its
drink offering, according to the rule, and one male goat for a sin offering.
Num 15:25 And the priest shall make atonement for all the congregation of the people of Israel, and they shallbe forgiven, because it was a mistake, and they have brought their offering, a food offering to the LORD, and
their sin offering before the LORD for their mistake.
Num 15:26 And all the congregation of the people of Israel shall be forgiven, and the stranger who sojourns
among them, because the whole population was involved in the mistake.
Num 15:27 "If one person sins unintentionally, he shall offer a female goat a year old for a sin offering.
Num 15:28 And the priest shall make atonement before the LORD for the person who makes a mistake, when
he sins unintentionally, to make atonement for him, and he shall be forgiven.
Num 15:29 You shall have one law for him who does anything unintentionally, for him who is native among the
people of Israel and for the stranger who sojourns among them.
Num 15:30 But the person who does anything with a high hand, whether he is native or a sojourner, reviles the
LORD, and that person shall be cut off from among his people.
Num 15:31 Because he has despised the word of the LORD and has broken his commandment, that person
shall be utterly cut off; his iniquity shall be on him."
Num 15:32 While the people of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man gathering sticks on the Sabbath
day.
Num 15:33 And those who found him gathering sticks brought him to Moses and Aaron and to all the
congregation.
Num 15:34 They put him in custody, because it had not been made clear what should be done to him.
Num 15:35 And the LORD said to Moses, "The man shall be put to death; all the congregation shall stone him
with stones outside the camp."
Num 15:36 And all the congregation brought him outside the camp and stoned him to death with stones, as the
LORD commanded Moses.
Num 15:37 The LORD said to Moses,
Num 15:38 "Speak to the people of Israel, and tell them to make tassels on the corners of their garments
throughout their generations, and to put a cord of blue on the tassel of each corner.
Num 15:39 And it shall be a tassel for you to look at and remember all the commandments of the LORD, to do
them, not to follow after your own heart and your own eyes, which you are inclined to whore after.
Num 15:40 So you shall remember and do all my commandments, and be holy to your God.
Num 15:41 I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt to be your God: I am the LORD
your God."
Num 16:1 Now Korah the son of Izhar, son of Kohath, son of Levi, and Dathan and Abiram the sons of Eliab,
and On the son of Peleth, sons of Reuben, took men.
Num 16:2 And they rose up before Moses, with a number of the people of Israel, 250 chiefs of the congregation,
chosen from the assembly, well-known men.
Num 16:3 They assembled themselves together against Moses and against Aaron and said to them, "You have
gone too far! For all in the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the LORD is among them. Why then do
you exalt yourselves above the assembly of the LORD?"
Num 16:4 When Moses heard it, he fell on his face,
Num 16:5 and he said to Korah and all his company, "In the morning the LORD will show who is his, and who is
holy, and will bring him near to him. The one whom he chooses he will bring near to him.
Num 16:6 Do this: take censers, Korah and all his company;
Num 16:7 put fire in them and put incense on them before the LORD tomorrow, and the man whom the LORD
chooses shall be the holy one. You have gone too far, sons of Levi!"
Num 16:8 And Moses said to Korah, "Hear now, you sons of Levi:
Num 16:9 is it too small a thing for you that the God of Israel has separated you from the congregation of Israel,
to bring you near to himself, to do service in the tabernacle of the LORD and to stand before the congregation to
minister to them,
Num 16:10 and that he has brought you near him, and all your brothers the sons of Levi with you? And would
you seek the priesthood also?
Num 16:11 Therefore it is against the LORD that you and all your company have gathered together. What is
Aaron that you grumble against him?"
Num 16:12 And Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram the sons of Eliab, and they said, "We will not come up.
Num 16:13 Is it a small thing that you have brought us up out of a land flowing with milk and honey, to kill us in
the wilderness, that you must also make yourself a prince over us?
Num 16:14 Moreover, you have not brought us into a land flowing with milk and honey, nor given us inheritance
of fields and vineyards. Will you put out the eyes of these men? We will not come up."
Num 16:15 And Moses was very angry and said to the LORD, "Do not respect their offering. I have not taken
one donkey from them, and I have not harmed one of them."
Num 16:16 And Moses said to Korah, "Be present, you and all your company, before the LORD, you and they,and Aaron, tomorrow.
Num 16:17 And let every one of you take his censer and put incense on it, and every one of you bring before
the LORD his censer, 250 censers; you also, and Aaron, each his censer."
Num 16:18 So every man took his censer and put fire in them and laid incense on them and stood at the
entrance of the tent of meeting with Moses and Aaron.
Num 16:19 Then Korah assembled all the congregation against them at the entrance of the tent of meeting. And
the glory of the LORD appeared to all the congregation.
Num 16:20 And the LORD spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
Num 16:21 "Separate yourselves from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment."
Num 16:22 And they fell on their faces and said, "O God, the God of the spirits of all flesh, shall one man sin,
and will you be angry with all the congregation?"
Num 16:23 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 16:24 "Say to the congregation, Get away from the dwelling of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram."
Num 16:25 Then Moses rose and went to Dathan and Abiram, and the elders of Israel followed him.
Num 16:26 And he spoke to the congregation, saying, "Depart, please, from the tents of these wicked men, and
touch nothing of theirs, lest you be swept away with all their sins."
Num 16:27 So they got away from the dwelling of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram. And Dathan and Abiram came
out and stood at the door of their tents, together with their wives, their sons, and their little ones.
Num 16:28 And Moses said, "Hereby you shall know that the LORD has sent me to do all these works, and that
it has not been of my own accord.
Num 16:29 If these men die as all men die, or if they are visited by the fate of all mankind, then the LORD has
not sent me.
Num 16:30 But if the LORD creates something new, and the ground opens its mouth and swallows them up with
all that belongs to them, and they go down alive into Sheol, then you shall know that these men have despised
the LORD."
Num 16:31 And as soon as he had finished speaking all these words, the ground under them split apart.
Num 16:32 And the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up, with their households and all the people
who belonged to Korah and all their goods.
Num 16:33 So they and all that belonged to them went down alive into Sheol, and the earth closed over them,
and they perished from the midst of the assembly.
Num 16:34 And all Israel who were around them fled at their cry, for they said, "Lest the earth swallow us up!"
Num 16:35 And fire came out from the LORD and consumed the 250 men offering the incense.
Num 16:36 Then the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 16:37 "Tell Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest to take up the censers out of the blaze. Then scatter the fire
far and wide, for they have become holy.
Num 16:38 As for the censers of these men who have sinned at the cost of their lives, let them be made into
hammered plates as a covering for the altar, for they offered them before the LORD, and they became holy.
Thus they shall be a sign to the people of Israel."
Num 16:39 So Eleazar the priest took the bronze censers, which those who were burned had offered, and they
were hammered out as a covering for the altar,
Num 16:40 to be a reminder to the people of Israel, so that no outsider, who is not of the descendants of Aaron,
should draw near to burn incense before the LORD, lest he become like Korah and his company- as the LORD
said to him through Moses.
Num 16:41 But on the next day all the congregation of the people of Israel grumbled against Moses and against
Aaron, saying, "You have killed the people of the LORD."
Num 16:42 And when the congregation had assembled against Moses and against Aaron, they turned toward
the tent of meeting. And behold, the cloud covered it, and the glory of the LORD appeared.
Num 16:43 And Moses and Aaron came to the front of the tent of meeting,
Num 16:44 and the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 16:45 "Get away from the midst of this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment." And they fell
on their faces.
Num 16:46 And Moses said to Aaron, "Take your censer, and put fire on it from off the altar and lay incense on
it and carry it quickly to the congregation and make atonement for them, for wrath has gone out from the LORD;
the plague has begun."
Num 16:47 So Aaron took it as Moses said and ran into the midst of the assembly. And behold, the plague had
already begun among the people. And he put on the incense and made atonement for the people.
Num 16:48 And he stood between the dead and the living, and the plague was stopped.
Num 16:49 Now those who died in the plague were 14,700, besides those who died in the affair of Korah.
Num 16:50 And Aaron returned to Moses at the entrance of the tent of meeting, when the plague was stopped.Num 17:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 17:2 "Speak to the people of Israel, and get from them staffs, one for each fathers' house, from all their
chiefs according to their fathers' houses, twelve staffs. Write each man's name on his staff,
Num 17:3 and write Aaron's name on the staff of Levi. For there shall be one staff for the head of each fathers'
house.
Num 17:4 Then you shall deposit them in the tent of meeting before the testimony, where I meet with you.
Num 17:5 And the staff of the man whom I choose shall sprout. Thus I will make to cease from me the
grumblings of the people of Israel, which they grumble against you."
Num 17:6 Moses spoke to the people of Israel. And all their chiefs gave him staffs, one for each chief, according
to their fathers' houses, twelve staffs. And the staff of Aaron was among their staffs.
Num 17:7 And Moses deposited the staffs before the LORD in the tent of the testimony.
Num 17:8 On the next day Moses went into the tent of the testimony, and behold, the staff of Aaron for the
house of Levi had sprouted and put forth buds and produced blossoms, and it bore ripe almonds.
Num 17:9 Then Moses brought out all the staffs from before the LORD to all the people of Israel. And they
looked, and each man took his staff.
Num 17:10 And the LORD said to Moses, "Put back the staff of Aaron before the testimony, to be kept as a sign
for the rebels, that you may make an end of their grumblings against me, lest they die."
Num 17:11 Thus did Moses; as the LORD commanded him, so he did.
Num 17:12 And the people of Israel said to Moses, "Behold, we perish, we are undone, we are all undone.
Num 17:13 Everyone who comes near, who comes near to the tabernacle of the LORD, shall die. Are we all to
perish?"
Num 18:1 So the LORD said to Aaron, "You and your sons and your father's house with you shall bear iniquity
connected with the sanctuary, and you and your sons with you shall bear iniquity connected with your
priesthood.
Num 18:2 And with you bring your brothers also, the tribe of Levi, the tribe of your father, that they may join you
and minister to you while you and your sons with you are before the tent of the testimony.
Num 18:3 They shall keep guard over you and over the whole tent, but shall not come near to the vessels of the
sanctuary or to the altar lest they, and you, die.
Num 18:4 They shall join you and keep guard over the tent of meeting for all the service of the tent, and no
outsider shall come near you.
Num 18:5 And you shall keep guard over the sanctuary and over the altar, that there may never again be wrath
on the people of Israel.
Num 18:6 And behold, I have taken your brothers the Levites from among the people of Israel. They are a gift to
you, given to the LORD, to do the service of the tent of meeting.
Num 18:7 And you and your sons with you shall guard your priesthood for all that concerns the altar and that is
within the veil; and you shall serve. I give your priesthood as a gift, and any outsider who comes near shall be
put to death."
Num 18:8 Then the LORD spoke to Aaron, "Behold, I have given you charge of the contributions made to me,
all the consecrated things of the people of Israel. I have given them to you as a portion and to your sons as a
perpetual due.
Num 18:9 This shall be yours of the most holy things, reserved from the fire: every offering of theirs, every grain
offering of theirs and every sin offering of theirs and every guilt offering of theirs, which they render to me, shall
be most holy to you and to your sons.
Num 18:10 In a most holy place shall you eat it. Every male may eat it; it is holy to you.
Num 18:11 This also is yours: the contribution of their gift, all the wave offerings of the people of Israel. I have
given them to you, and to your sons and daughters with you, as a perpetual due. Everyone who is clean in your
house may eat it.
Num 18:12 All the best of the oil and all the best of the wine and of the grain, the firstfruits of what they give to
the LORD, I give to you.
Num 18:13 The first ripe fruits of all that is in their land, which they bring to the LORD, shall be yours. Everyone
who is clean in your house may eat it.
Num 18:14 Every devoted thing in Israel shall be yours.
Num 18:15 Everything that opens the womb of all flesh, whether man or beast, which they offer to the LORD,
shall be yours. Nevertheless, the firstborn of man you shall redeem, and the firstborn of unclean animals you
shall redeem.
Num 18:16 And their redemption price (at a month old you shall redeem them) you shall fix at five shekels in
silver, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, which is twenty gerahs.
Num 18:17 But the firstborn of a cow, or the firstborn of a sheep, or the firstborn of a goat, you shall not redeem;
they are holy. You shall sprinkle their blood on the altar and shall burn their fat as a food offering, with a pleasingaroma to the LORD.
Num 18:18 But their flesh shall be yours, as the breast that is waved and as the right thigh are yours.
Num 18:19 All the holy contributions that the people of Israel present to the LORD I give to you, and to your
sons and daughters with you, as a perpetual due. It is a covenant of salt forever before the LORD for you and for
your offspring with you."
Num 18:20 And the LORD said to Aaron, "You shall have no inheritance in their land, neither shall you have any
portion among them. I am your portion and your inheritance among the people of Israel.
Num 18:21 "To the Levites I have given every tithe in Israel for an inheritance, in return for their service that
they do, their service in the tent of meeting,
Num 18:22 so that the people of Israel do not come near the tent of meeting, lest they bear sin and die.
Num 18:23 But the Levites shall do the service of the tent of meeting, and they shall bear their iniquity. It shall
be a perpetual statute throughout your generations, and among the people of Israel they shall have no
inheritance.
Num 18:24 For the tithe of the people of Israel, which they present as a contribution to the LORD, I have given
to the Levites for an inheritance. Therefore I have said of them that they shall have no inheritance among the
people of Israel."
Num 18:25 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 18:26 "Moreover, you shall speak and say to the Levites, 'When you take from the people of Israel the tithe
that I have given you from them for your inheritance, then you shall present a contribution from it to the LORD, a
tithe of the tithe.
Num 18:27 And your contribution shall be counted to you as though it were the grain of the threshing floor, and
as the fullness of the winepress.
Num 18:28 So you shall also present a contribution to the LORD from all your tithes, which you receive from the
people of Israel. And from it you shall give the LORD's contribution to Aaron the priest.
Num 18:29 Out of all the gifts to you, you shall present every contribution due to the LORD; from each its best
part is to be dedicated.'
Num 18:30 Therefore you shall say to them, 'When you have offered from it the best of it, then the rest shall be
counted to the Levites as produce of the threshing floor, and as produce of the winepress.
Num 18:31 And you may eat it in any place, you and your households, for it is your reward in return for your
service in the tent of meeting.
Num 18:32 And you shall bear no sin by reason of it, when you have contributed the best of it. But you shall not
profane the holy things of the people of Israel, lest you die.'"
Num 19:1 Now the LORD spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
Num 19:2 "This is the statute of the law that the LORD has commanded: Tell the people of Israel to bring you a
red heifer without defect, in which there is no blemish, and on which a yoke has never come.
Num 19:3 And you shall give it to Eleazar the priest, and it shall be taken outside the camp and slaughtered
before him.
Num 19:4 And Eleazar the priest shall take some of its blood with his finger, and sprinkle some of its blood
toward the front of the tent of meeting seven times.
Num 19:5 And the heifer shall be burned in his sight. Its skin, its flesh, and its blood, with its dung, shall be
burned.
Num 19:6 And the priest shall take cedarwood and hyssop and scarlet yarn, and throw them into the fire burning
the heifer.
Num 19:7 Then the priest shall wash his clothes and bathe his body in water, and afterward he may come into
the camp. But the priest shall be unclean until evening.
Num 19:8 The one who burns the heifer shall wash his clothes in water and bathe his body in water and shall be
unclean until evening.
Num 19:9 And a man who is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer and deposit them outside the camp in
a clean place. And they shall be kept for the water for impurity for the congregation of the people of Israel; it is a
sin offering.
Num 19:10 And the one who gathers the ashes of the heifer shall wash his clothes and be unclean until
evening. And this shall be a perpetual statute for the people of Israel, and for the stranger who sojourns among
them.
Num 19:11 "Whoever touches the dead body of any person shall be unclean seven days.
Num 19:12 He shall cleanse himself with the water on the third day and on the seventh day, and so be clean.
But if he does not cleanse himself on the third day and on the seventh day, he will not become clean.
Num 19:13 Whoever touches a dead person, the body of anyone who has died, and does not cleanse himself,
defiles the tabernacle of the LORD, and that person shall be cut off from Israel; because the water for impurity
was not thrown on him, he shall be unclean. His uncleanness is still on him.Num 19:14 "This is the law when someone dies in a tent: everyone who comes into the tent and everyone who
is in the tent shall be unclean seven days.
Num 19:15 And every open vessel that has no cover fastened on it is unclean.
Num 19:16 Whoever in the open field touches someone who was killed with a sword or who died naturally, or
touches a human bone or a grave, shall be unclean seven days.
Num 19:17 For the unclean they shall take some ashes of the burnt sin offering, and fresh water shall be added
in a vessel.
Num 19:18 Then a clean person shall take hyssop and dip it in the water and sprinkle it on the tent and on all
the furnishings and on the persons who were there and on whoever touched the bone, or the slain or the dead or
the grave.
Num 19:19 And the clean person shall sprinkle it on the unclean on the third day and on the seventh day. Thus
on the seventh day he shall cleanse him, and he shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and at
evening he shall be clean.
Num 19:20 "If the man who is unclean does not cleanse himself, that person shall be cut off from the midst of
the assembly, since he has defiled the sanctuary of the LORD. Because the water for impurity has not been
thrown on him, he is unclean.
Num 19:21 And it shall be a statute forever for them. The one who sprinkles the water for impurity shall wash his
clothes, and the one who touches the water for impurity shall be unclean until evening.
Num 19:22 And whatever the unclean person touches shall be unclean, and anyone who touches it shall be
unclean until evening."
Num 20:1 And the people of Israel, the whole congregation, came into the wilderness of Zin in the first month,
and the people stayed in Kadesh. And Miriam died there and was buried there.
Num 20:2 Now there was no water for the congregation. And they assembled themselves together against
Moses and against Aaron.
Num 20:3 And the people quarreled with Moses and said, "Would that we had perished when our brothers
perished before the LORD!
Num 20:4 Why have you brought the assembly of the LORD into this wilderness, that we should die here, both
we and our cattle?
Num 20:5 And why have you made us come up out of Egypt to bring us to this evil place? It is no place for grain
or figs or vines or pomegranates, and there is no water to drink."
Num 20:6 Then Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly to the entrance of the tent of
meeting and fell on their faces. And the glory of the LORD appeared to them,
Num 20:7 and the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 20:8 "Take the staff, and assemble the congregation, you and Aaron your brother, and tell the rock before
their eyes to yield its water. So you shall bring water out of the rock for them and give drink to the congregation
and their cattle."
Num 20:9 And Moses took the staff from before the LORD, as he commanded him.
Num 20:10 Then Moses and Aaron gathered the assembly together before the rock, and he said to them, "Hear
now, you rebels: shall we bring water for you out of this rock?"
Num 20:11 And Moses lifted up his hand and struck the rock with his staff twice, and water came out
abundantly, and the congregation drank, and their livestock.
Num 20:12 And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron, "Because you did not believe in me, to uphold me as holy
in the eyes of the people of Israel, therefore you shall not bring this assembly into the land that I have given
them."
Num 20:13 These are the waters of Meribah, where the people of Israel quarreled with the LORD, and through
them he showed himself holy.
Num 20:14 Moses sent messengers from Kadesh to the king of Edom: "Thus says your brother Israel: You
know all the hardship that we have met:
Num 20:15 how our fathers went down to Egypt, and we lived in Egypt a long time. And the Egyptians dealt
harshly with us and our fathers.
Num 20:16 And when we cried to the LORD, he heard our voice and sent an angel and brought us out of Egypt.
And here we are in Kadesh, a city on the edge of your territory.
Num 20:17 Please let us pass through your land. We will not pass through field or vineyard, or drink water from
a well. We will go along the King's Highway. We will not turn aside to the right hand or to the left until we have
passed through your territory."
Num 20:18 But Edom said to him, "You shall not pass through, lest I come out with the sword against you."
Num 20:19 And the people of Israel said to him, "We will go up by the highway, and if we drink of your water, I
and my livestock, then I will pay for it. Let me only pass through on foot, nothing more."
Num 20:20 But he said, "You shall not pass through." And Edom came out against them with a large army andwith a strong force.
Num 20:21 Thus Edom refused to give Israel passage through his territory, so Israel turned away from him.
Num 20:22 And they journeyed from Kadesh, and the people of Israel, the whole congregation, came to Mount
Hor.
Num 20:23 And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron at Mount Hor, on the border of the land of Edom,
Num 20:24 "Let Aaron be gathered to his people, for he shall not enter the land that I have given to the people
of Israel, because you rebelled against my command at the waters of Meribah.
Num 20:25 Take Aaron and Eleazar his son and bring them up to Mount Hor.
Num 20:26 And strip Aaron of his garments and put them on Eleazar his son. And Aaron shall be gathered to
his people and shall die there."
Num 20:27 Moses did as the LORD commanded. And they went up Mount Hor in the sight of all the
congregation.
Num 20:28 And Moses stripped Aaron of his garments and put them on Eleazar his son. And Aaron died there
on the top of the mountain. Then Moses and Eleazar came down from the mountain.
Num 20:29 And when all the congregation saw that Aaron had perished, all the house of Israel wept for Aaron
thirty days.
Num 21:1 When the Canaanite, the king of Arad, who lived in the Negeb, heard that Israel was coming by the
way of Atharim, he fought against Israel, and took some of them captive.
Num 21:2 And Israel vowed a vow to the LORD and said, "If you will indeed give this people into my hand, then
I will devote their cities to destruction."
Num 21:3 And the LORD obeyed the voice of Israel and gave over the Canaanites, and they devoted them and
their cities to destruction. So the name of the place was called Hormah.
Num 21:4 From Mount Hor they set out by the way to the Red Sea, to go around the land of Edom. And the
people became impatient on the way.
Num 21:5 And the people spoke against God and against Moses, "Why have you brought us up out of Egypt to
die in the wilderness? For there is no food and no water, and we loathe this worthless food."
Num 21:6 Then the LORD sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people, so that many people
of Israel died.
Num 21:7 And the people came to Moses and said, "We have sinned, for we have spoken against the LORD
and against you. Pray to the LORD, that he take away the serpents from us." So Moses prayed for the people.
Num 21:8 And the LORD said to Moses, "Make a fiery serpent and set it on a pole, and everyone who is bitten,
when he sees it, shall live."
Num 21:9 So Moses made a bronze serpent and set it on a pole. And if a serpent bit anyone, he would look at
the bronze serpent and live.
Num 21:10 And the people of Israel set out and camped in Oboth.
Num 21:11 And they set out from Oboth and camped at Iye-abarim, in the wilderness that is opposite Moab,
toward the sunrise.
Num 21:12 From there they set out and camped in the Valley of Zered.
Num 21:13 From there they set out and camped on the other side of the Arnon, which is in the wilderness that
extends from the border of the Amorites, for the Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites.
Num 21:14 Wherefore it is said in the Book of the Wars of the LORD, "Waheb in Suphah, and the valleys of the
Arnon,
Num 21:15 and the slope of the valleys that extends to the seat of Ar, and leans to the border of Moab."
Num 21:16 And from there they continued to Beer; that is the well of which the LORD said to Moses, "Gather
the people together, so that I may give them water."
Num 21:17 Then Israel sang this song: "Spring up, O well!- Sing to it!-
Num 21:18 the well that the princes dug, that the nobles of the people delved, with the scepter and with their
staffs." And from the wilderness they went on to Mattanah,
Num 21:19 and from Mattanah to Nahaliel, and from Nahaliel to Bamoth,
Num 21:20 and from Bamoth to the valley lying in the region of Moab by the top of Pisgah that looks down on
the desert.
Num 21:21 Then Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, saying,
Num 21:22 "Let me pass through your land. We will not turn aside into field or vineyard. We will not drink the
water of a well. We will go by the King's Highway until we have passed through your territory."
Num 21:23 But Sihon would not allow Israel to pass through his territory. He gathered all his people together
and went out against Israel to the wilderness and came to Jahaz and fought against Israel.
Num 21:24 And Israel defeated him with the edge of the sword and took possession of his land from the Arnon
to the Jabbok, as far as to the Ammonites, for the border of the Ammonites was strong.
Num 21:25 And Israel took all these cities, and Israel settled in all the cities of the Amorites, in Heshbon, and inall its villages.
Num 21:26 For Heshbon was the city of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who had fought against the former king
of Moab and taken all his land out of his hand, as far as the Arnon.
Num 21:27 Therefore the ballad singers say, "Come to Heshbon, let it be built; let the city of Sihon be
established.
Num 21:28 For fire came out from Heshbon, flame from the city of Sihon. It devoured Ar of Moab, and
swallowed the heights of the Arnon.
Num 21:29 Woe to you, O Moab! You are undone, O people of Chemosh! He has made his sons fugitives, and
his daughters captives, to an Amorite king, Sihon.
Num 21:30 So we overthrew them; Heshbon, as far as Dibon, perished; and we laid waste as far as Nophah;
fire spread as far as Medeba."
Num 21:31 Thus Israel lived in the land of the Amorites.
Num 21:32 And Moses sent to spy out Jazer, and they captured its villages and dispossessed the Amorites who
were there.
Num 21:33 Then they turned and went up by the way to Bashan. And Og the king of Bashan came out against
them, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei.
Num 21:34 But the LORD said to Moses, "Do not fear him, for I have given him into your hand, and all his
people, and his land. And you shall do to him as you did to Sihon king of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon."
Num 21:35 So they defeated him and his sons and all his people, until he had no survivor left. And they
possessed his land.
Num 22:1 Then the people of Israel set out and camped in the plains of Moab beyond the Jordan at Jericho.
Num 22:2 And Balak the son of Zippor saw all that Israel had done to the Amorites.
Num 22:3 And Moab was in great dread of the people, because they were many. Moab was overcome with fear
of the people of Israel.
Num 22:4 And Moab said to the elders of Midian, "This horde will now lick up all that is around us, as the ox
licks up the grass of the field." So Balak the son of Zippor, who was king of Moab at that time,
Num 22:5 sent messengers to Balaam the son of Beor at Pethor, which is near the River in the land of the
people of Amaw, to call him, saying, "Behold, a people has come out of Egypt. They cover the face of the earth,
and they are dwelling opposite me.
Num 22:6 Come now, curse this people for me, since they are too mighty for me. Perhaps I shall be able to
defeat them and drive them from the land, for I know that he whom you bless is blessed, and he whom you curse
is cursed."
Num 22:7 So the elders of Moab and the elders of Midian departed with the fees for divination in their hand. And
they came to Balaam and gave him Balak's message.
Num 22:8 And he said to them, "Lodge here tonight, and I will bring back word to you, as the LORD speaks to
me." So the princes of Moab stayed with Balaam.
Num 22:9 And God came to Balaam and said, "Who are these men with you?"
Num 22:10 And Balaam said to God, "Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, has sent to me, saying,
Num 22:11 'Behold, a people has come out of Egypt, and it covers the face of the earth. Now come, curse them
for me. Perhaps I shall be able to fight against them and drive them out.'"
Num 22:12 God said to Balaam, "You shall not go with them. You shall not curse the people, for they are
blessed."
Num 22:13 So Balaam rose in the morning and said to the princes of Balak, "Go to your own land, for the LORD
has refused to let me go with you."
Num 22:14 So the princes of Moab rose and went to Balak and said, "Balaam refuses to come with us."
Num 22:15 Once again Balak sent princes, more in number and more honorable than these.
Num 22:16 And they came to Balaam and said to him, "Thus says Balak the son of Zippor: 'Let nothing hinder
you from coming to me,
Num 22:17 for I will surely do you great honor, and whatever you say to me I will do. Come, curse this people
for me.'"
Num 22:18 But Balaam answered and said to the servants of Balak, "Though Balak were to give me his house
full of silver and gold, I could not go beyond the command of the LORD my God to do less or more.
Num 22:19 So you, too, please stay here tonight, that I may know what more the LORD will say to me."
Num 22:20 And God came to Balaam at night and said to him, "If the men have come to call you, rise, go with
them; but only do what I tell you."
Num 22:21 So Balaam rose in the morning and saddled his donkey and went with the princes of Moab.
Num 22:22 But God's anger was kindled because he went, and the angel of the LORD took his stand in the way
as his adversary. Now he was riding on the donkey, and his two servants were with him.
Num 22:23 And the donkey saw the angel of the LORD standing in the road, with a drawn sword in his hand.And the donkey turned aside out of the road and went into the field. And Balaam struck the donkey, to turn her
into the road.
Num 22:24 Then the angel of the LORD stood in a narrow path between the vineyards, with a wall on either
side.
Num 22:25 And when the donkey saw the angel of the LORD, she pushed against the wall and pressed
Balaam's foot against the wall. So he struck her again.
Num 22:26 Then the angel of the LORD went ahead and stood in a narrow place, where there was no way to
turn either to the right or to the left.
Num 22:27 When the donkey saw the angel of the LORD, she lay down under Balaam. And Balaam's anger
was kindled, and he struck the donkey with his staff.
Num 22:28 Then the LORD opened the mouth of the donkey, and she said to Balaam, "What have I done to
you, that you have struck me these three times?"
Num 22:29 And Balaam said to the donkey, "Because you have made a fool of me. I wish I had a sword in my
hand, for then I would kill you."
Num 22:30 And the donkey said to Balaam, "Am I not your donkey, on which you have ridden all your life long
to this day? Is it my habit to treat you this way?" And he said, "No."
Num 22:31 Then the LORD opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the angel of the LORD standing in the
way, with his drawn sword in his hand. And he bowed down and fell on his face.
Num 22:32 And the angel of the LORD said to him, "Why have you struck your donkey these three times?
Behold, I have come out to oppose you because your way is perverse before me.
Num 22:33 The donkey saw me and turned aside before me these three times. If she had not turned aside from
me, surely just now I would have killed you and let her live."
Num 22:34 Then Balaam said to the angel of the LORD, "I have sinned, for I did not know that you stood in the
road against me. Now therefore, if it is evil in your sight, I will turn back."
Num 22:35 And the angel of the LORD said to Balaam, "Go with the men, but speak only the word that I tell
you." So Balaam went on with the princes of Balak.
Num 22:36 When Balak heard that Balaam had come, he went out to meet him at the city of Moab, on the
border formed by the Arnon, at the extremity of the border.
Num 22:37 And Balak said to Balaam, "Did I not send to you to call you? Why did you not come to me? Am I not
able to honor you?"
Num 22:38 Balaam said to Balak, "Behold, I have come to you! Have I now any power of my own to speak
anything? The word that God puts in my mouth, that must I speak."
Num 22:39 Then Balaam went with Balak, and they came to Kiriath-huzoth.
Num 22:40 And Balak sacrificed oxen and sheep, and sent for Balaam and for the princes who were with him.
Num 22:41 And in the morning Balak took Balaam and brought him up to Bamoth-baal, and from there he saw a
fraction of the people.
Num 23:1 And Balaam said to Balak, "Build for me here seven altars, and prepare for me here seven bulls and
seven rams."
Num 23:2 Balak did as Balaam had said. And Balak and Balaam offered on each altar a bull and a ram.
Num 23:3 And Balaam said to Balak, "Stand beside your burnt offering, and I will go. Perhaps the LORD will
come to meet me, and whatever he shows me I will tell you." And he went to a bare height,
Num 23:4 and God met Balaam. And Balaam said to him, "I have arranged the seven altars and I have offered
on each altar a bull and a ram."
Num 23:5 And the LORD put a word in Balaam's mouth and said, "Return to Balak, and thus you shall speak."
Num 23:6 And he returned to him, and behold, he and all the princes of Moab were standing beside his burnt
offering.
Num 23:7 And Balaam took up his discourse and said, "From Aram Balak has brought me, the king of Moab
from the eastern mountains: 'Come, curse Jacob for me, and come, denounce Israel!'
Num 23:8 How can I curse whom God has not cursed? How can I denounce whom the LORD has not
denounced?
Num 23:9 For from the top of the crags I see him, from the hills I behold him; behold, a people dwelling alone,
and not counting itself among the nations!
Num 23:10 Who can count the dust of Jacob or number the fourth part of Israel? Let me die the death of the
upright, and let my end be like his!"
Num 23:11 And Balak said to Balaam, "What have you done to me? I took you to curse my enemies, and
behold, you have done nothing but bless them."
Num 23:12 And he answered and said, "Must I not take care to speak what the LORD puts in my mouth?"
Num 23:13 And Balak said to him, "Please come with me to another place, from which you may see them. You
shall see only a fraction of them and shall not see them all. Then curse them for me from there."Num 23:14 And he took him to the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, and built seven altars and offered a bull
and a ram on each altar.
Num 23:15 Balaam said to Balak, "Stand here beside your burnt offering, while I meet the LORD over there."
Num 23:16 And the LORD met Balaam and put a word in his mouth and said, "Return to Balak, and thus shall
you speak."
Num 23:17 And he came to him, and behold, he was standing beside his burnt offering, and the princes of Moab
with him. And Balak said to him, "What has the LORD spoken?"
Num 23:18 And Balaam took up his discourse and said, "Rise, Balak, and hear; give ear to me, O son of Zippor:
Num 23:19 God is not man, that he should lie, or a son of man, that he should change his mind. Has he said,
and will he not do it? Or has he spoken, and will he not fulfill it?
Num 23:20 Behold, I received a command to bless: he has blessed, and I cannot revoke it.
Num 23:21 He has not beheld misfortune in Jacob, nor has he seen trouble in Israel. The LORD their God is
with them, and the shout of a king is among them.
Num 23:22 God brings them out of Egypt and is for them like the horns of the wild ox.
Num 23:23 For there is no enchantment against Jacob, no divination against Israel; now it shall be said of Jacob
and Israel, 'What has God wrought!'
Num 23:24 Behold, a people! As a lioness it rises up and as a lion it lifts itself; it does not lie down until it has
devoured the prey and drunk the blood of the slain."
Num 23:25 And Balak said to Balaam, "Do not curse them at all, and do not bless them at all."
Num 23:26 But Balaam answered Balak, "Did I not tell you, 'All that the LORD says, that I must do'?"
Num 23:27 And Balak said to Balaam, "Come now, I will take you to another place. Perhaps it will please God
that you may curse them for me from there."
Num 23:28 So Balak took Balaam to the top of Peor, which overlooks the desert.
Num 23:29 And Balaam said to Balak, "Build for me here seven altars and prepare for me here seven bulls and
seven rams."
Num 23:30 And Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered a bull and a ram on each altar.
Num 24:1 When Balaam saw that it pleased the LORD to bless Israel, he did not go, as at other times, to look
for omens, but set his face toward the wilderness.
Num 24:2 And Balaam lifted up his eyes and saw Israel camping tribe by tribe. And the Spirit of God came upon
him,
Num 24:3 and he took up his discourse and said, "The oracle of Balaam the son of Beor, the oracle of the man
whose eye is opened,
Num 24:4 the oracle of him who hears the words of God, who sees the vision of the Almighty, falling down with
his eyes uncovered:
Num 24:5 How lovely are your tents, O Jacob, your encampments, O Israel!
Num 24:6 Like palm groves that stretch afar, like gardens beside a river, like aloes that the LORD has planted,
like cedar trees beside the waters.
Num 24:7 Water shall flow from his buckets, and his seed shall be in many waters; his king shall be higher than
Agag, and his kingdom shall be exalted.
Num 24:8 God brings him out of Egypt and is for him like the horns of the wild ox; he shall eat up the nations,
his adversaries, and shall break their bones in pieces and pierce them through with his arrows.
Num 24:9 He crouched, he lay down like a lion and like a lioness; who will rouse him up? Blessed are those
who bless you, and cursed are those who curse you."
Num 24:10 And Balak's anger was kindled against Balaam, and he struck his hands together. And Balak said to
Balaam, "I called you to curse my enemies, and behold, you have blessed them these three times.
Num 24:11 Therefore now flee to your own place. I said, 'I will certainly honor you,' but the LORD has held you
back from honor."
Num 24:12 And Balaam said to Balak, "Did I not tell your messengers whom you sent to me,
Num 24:13 'If Balak should give me his house full of silver and gold, I would not be able to go beyond the word
of the LORD, to do either good or bad of my own will. What the LORD speaks, that will I speak'?
Num 24:14 And now, behold, I am going to my people. Come, I will let you know what this people will do to your
people in the latter days."
Num 24:15 And he took up his discourse and said, "The oracle of Balaam the son of Beor, the oracle of the man
whose eye is opened,
Num 24:16 the oracle of him who hears the words of God, and knows the knowledge of the Most High, who
sees the vision of the Almighty, falling down with his eyes uncovered:
Num 24:17 I see him, but not now; I behold him, but not near: a star shall come out of Jacob, and a scepter
shall rise out of Israel; it shall crush the forehead of Moab and break down all the sons of Sheth.
Num 24:18 Edom shall be dispossessed; Seir also, his enemies, shall be dispossessed. Israel is doing valiantly.Num 24:19 And one from Jacob shall exercise dominion and destroy the survivors of cities!"
Num 24:20 Then he looked on Amalek and took up his discourse and said, "Amalek was the first among the
nations, but its end is utter destruction."
Num 24:21 And he looked on the Kenite, and took up his discourse and said, "Enduring is your dwelling place,
and your nest is set in the rock.
Num 24:22 Nevertheless, Kain shall be burned when Asshur takes you away captive."
Num 24:23 And he took up his discourse and said, "Alas, who shall live when God does this?
Num 24:24 But ships shall come from Kittim and shall afflict Asshur and Eber; and he too shall come to utter
destruction."
Num 24:25 Then Balaam rose and went back to his place. And Balak also went his way.
Num 25:1 While Israel lived in Shittim, the people began to whore with the daughters of Moab.
Num 25:2 These invited the people to the sacrifices of their gods, and the people ate and bowed down to their
gods.
Num 25:3 So Israel yoked himself to Baal of Peor. And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel.
Num 25:4 And the LORD said to Moses, "Take all the chiefs of the people and hang them in the sun before the
LORD, that the fierce anger of the LORD may turn away from Israel."
Num 25:5 And Moses said to the judges of Israel, "Each of you kill those of his men who have yoked
themselves to Baal of Peor."
Num 25:6 And behold, one of the people of Israel came and brought a Midianite woman to his family, in the
sight of Moses and in the sight of the whole congregation of the people of Israel, while they were weeping in the
entrance of the tent of meeting.
Num 25:7 When Phinehas the son of Eleazar, son of Aaron the priest, saw it, he rose and left the congregation
and took a spear in his hand
Num 25:8 and went after the man of Israel into the chamber and pierced both of them, the man of Israel and the
woman through her belly. Thus the plague on the people of Israel was stopped.
Num 25:9 Nevertheless, those who died by the plague were twenty-four thousand.
Num 25:10 And the LORD said to Moses,
Num 25:11 "Phinehas the son of Eleazar, son of Aaron the priest, has turned back my wrath from the people of
Israel, in that he was jealous with my jealousy among them, so that I did not consume the people of Israel in my
jealousy.
Num 25:12 Therefore say, 'Behold, I give to him my covenant of peace,
Num 25:13 and it shall be to him and to his descendants after him the covenant of a perpetual priesthood,
because he was jealous for his God and made atonement for the people of Israel.'"
Num 25:14 The name of the slain man of Israel, who was killed with the Midianite woman, was Zimri the son of
Salu, chief of a father's house belonging to the Simeonites.
Num 25:15 And the name of the Midianite woman who was killed was Cozbi the daughter of Zur, who was the
tribal head of a father's house in Midian.
Num 25:16 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 25:17 "Harass the Midianites and strike them down,
Num 25:18 for they have harassed you with their wiles, with which they beguiled you in the matter of Peor, and
in the matter of Cozbi, the daughter of the chief of Midian, their sister, who was killed on the day of the plague on
account of Peor."
Num 26:1 After the plague, the LORD said to Moses and to Eleazar the son of Aaron, the priest,
Num 26:2 "Take a census of all the congregation of the people of Israel, from twenty years old and upward, by
their fathers' houses, all in Israel who are able to go to war."
Num 26:3 And Moses and Eleazar the priest spoke with them in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho,
saying,
Num 26:4 "Take a census of the people, from twenty years old and upward," as the LORD commanded Moses.
The people of Israel who came out of the land of Egypt were:
Num 26:5 Reuben, the firstborn of Israel; the sons of Reuben: of Hanoch, the clan of the Hanochites; of Pallu,
the clan of the Palluites;
Num 26:6 of Hezron, the clan of the Hezronites; of Carmi, the clan of the Carmites.
Num 26:7 These are the clans of the Reubenites, and those listed were 43,730.
Num 26:8 And the sons of Pallu: Eliab.
Num 26:9 The sons of Eliab: Nemuel, Dathan, and Abiram. These are the Dathan and Abiram, chosen from the
congregation, who contended against Moses and Aaron in the company of Korah, when they contended against
the LORD
Num 26:10 and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up together with Korah, when that company
died, when the fire devoured 250 men, and they became a warning.Num 26:11 But the sons of Korah did not die.
Num 26:12 The sons of Simeon according to their clans: of Nemuel, the clan of the Nemuelites; of Jamin, the
clan of the Ja-minites; of Jachin, the clan of the Jachinites;
Num 26:13 of Zerah, the clan of the Zerahites; of Shaul, the clan of the Sha-ulites.
Num 26:14 These are the clans of the Simeonites, 22,200.
Num 26:15 The sons of Gad according to their clans: of Zephon, the clan of the Zephonites; of Haggi, the clan
of the Haggites; of Shuni, the clan of the Shunites;
Num 26:16 of Ozni, the clan of the Oznites; of Eri, the clan of the Erites;
Num 26:17 of Arod, the clan of the Arodites; of Areli, the clan of the Arelites.
Num 26:18 These are the clans of the sons of Gad as they were listed, 40,500.
Num 26:19 The sons of Judah were Er and Onan; and Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.
Num 26:20 And the sons of Judah according to their clans were: of Shelah, the clan of the Shelanites; of Perez,
the clan of the Perezites; of Zerah, the clan of the Zerahites.
Num 26:21 And the sons of Perez were: of Hezron, the clan of the Hezronites; of Hamul, the clan of the
Hamulites.
Num 26:22 These are the clans of Judah as they were listed, 76,500.
Num 26:23 The sons of Issachar according to their clans: of Tola, the clan of the Tolaites; of Puvah, the clan of
the Punites;
Num 26:24 of Jashub, the clan of the Ja-shubites; of Shimron, the clan of the Shimronites.
Num 26:25 These are the clans of Issachar as they were listed, 64,300.
Num 26:26 The sons of Zebulun, according to their clans: of Sered, the clan of the Seredites; of Elon, the clan
of the Elonites; of Jahleel, the clan of the Jah-leelites.
Num 26:27 These are the clans of the Zeb-ulunites as they were listed, 60,500.
Num 26:28 The sons of Joseph according to their clans: Manasseh and Ephraim.
Num 26:29 The sons of Manasseh: of Machir, the clan of the Machirites; and Machir was the father of Gilead; of
Gilead, the clan of the Gileadites.
Num 26:30 These are the sons of Gilead: of Iezer, the clan of the Iezerites; of Helek, the clan of the Helekites;
Num 26:31 and of Asriel, the clan of the Asrielites; and of Shechem, the clan of the Shechemites;
Num 26:32 and of Shemida, the clan of the Shemidaites; and of Hepher, the clan of the Hepherites.
Num 26:33 Now Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sons, but daughters. And the names of the daughters of
Zelophehad were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
Num 26:34 These are the clans of Manasseh, and those listed were 52,700.
Num 26:35 These are the sons of Ephraim according to their clans: of Shuthelah, the clan of the Shuthelahites;
of Becher, the clan of the Becherites; of Tahan, the clan of the Tahanites.
Num 26:36 And these are the sons of Shuthelah: of Eran, the clan of the Eranites.
Num 26:37 These are the clans of the sons of Ephraim as they were listed, 32,500. These are the sons of
Joseph according to their clans.
Num 26:38 The sons of Benjamin according to their clans: of Bela, the clan of the Belaites; of Ashbel, the clan
of the Ashbelites; of Ahiram, the clan of the Ahiramites;
Num 26:39 of Shephupham, the clan of the Shuphamites; of Hupham, the clan of the Huphamites.
Num 26:40 And the sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman: of Ard, the clan of the Ardites; of Naaman, the clan of
the Naamites.
Num 26:41 These are the sons of Benjamin according to their clans, and those listed were 45,600.
Num 26:42 These are the sons of Dan according to their clans: of Shuham, the clan of the Shuhamites. These
are the clans of Dan according to their clans.
Num 26:43 All the clans of the Shuhamites, as they were listed, were 64,400.
Num 26:44 The sons of Asher according to their clans: of Imnah, the clan of the Imnites; of Ishvi, the clan of the
Ishvites; of Beriah, the clan of the Beriites.
Num 26:45 Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the clan of the Heberites; of Malchiel, the clan of the Malchielites.
Num 26:46 And the name of the daughter of Asher was Serah.
Num 26:47 These are the clans of the sons of Asher as they were listed, 53,400.
Num 26:48 The sons of Naphtali according to their clans: of Jahzeel, the clan of the Jahzeelites; of Guni, the
clan of the Gunites;
Num 26:49 of Jezer, the clan of the Jezerites; of Shillem, the clan of the Shillemites.
Num 26:50 These are the clans of Naphtali according to their clans, and those listed were 45,400.
Num 26:51 This was the list of the people of Israel, 601,730.
Num 26:52 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 26:53 "Among these the land shall be divided for inheritance according to the number of names.
Num 26:54 To a large tribe you shall give a large inheritance, and to a small tribe you shall give a smallinheritance; every tribe shall be given its inheritance in proportion to its list.
Num 26:55 But the land shall be divided by lot. According to the names of the tribes of their fathers they shall
inherit.
Num 26:56 Their inheritance shall be divided according to lot between the larger and the smaller."
Num 26:57 This was the list of the Levites according to their clans: of Gershon, the clan of the Gershonites; of
Kohath, the clan of the Kohathites; of Merari, the clan of the Merarites.
Num 26:58 These are the clans of Levi: the clan of the Libnites, the clan of the Hebronites, the clan of the
Mahlites, the clan of the Mushites, the clan of the Korahites. And Kohath was the father of Amram.
Num 26:59 The name of Amram's wife was Jochebed the daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi in Egypt. And
she bore to Amram Aaron and Moses and Miriam their sister.
Num 26:60 And to Aaron were born Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
Num 26:61 But Nadab and Abihu died when they offered unauthorized fire before the LORD.
Num 26:62 And those listed were 23,000, every male from a month old and upward. For they were not listed
among the people of Israel, because there was no inheritance given to them among the people of Israel.
Num 26:63 These were those listed by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who listed the people of Israel in the
plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho.
Num 26:64 But among these there was not one of those listed by Moses and Aaron the priest, who had listed
the people of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai.
Num 26:65 For the LORD had said of them, "They shall die in the wilderness." Not one of them was left, except
Caleb the son of Jephunneh and Joshua the son of Nun.
Num 27:1 Then drew near the daughters of Zelophehad the son of Hepher, son of Gilead, son of Machir, son of
Manasseh, from the clans of Manasseh the son of Joseph. The names of his daughters were: Mahlah, Noah,
Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
Num 27:2 And they stood before Moses and before Eleazar the priest and before the chiefs and all the
congregation, at the entrance of the tent of meeting, saying,
Num 27:3 "Our father died in the wilderness. He was not among the company of those who gathered
themselves together against the LORD in the company of Korah, but died for his own sin. And he had no sons.
Num 27:4 Why should the name of our father be taken away from his clan because he had no son? Give to us a
possession among our father's brothers."
Num 27:5 Moses brought their case before the LORD.
Num 27:6 And the LORD said to Moses,
Num 27:7 "The daughters of Zelophehad are right. You shall give them possession of an inheritance among
their father's brothers and transfer the inheritance of their father to them.
Num 27:8 And you shall speak to the people of Israel, saying, 'If a man dies and has no son, then you shall
transfer his inheritance to his daughter.
Num 27:9 And if he has no daughter, then you shall give his inheritance to his brothers.
Num 27:10 And if he has no brothers, then you shall give his inheritance to his father's brothers.
Num 27:11 And if his father has no brothers, then you shall give his inheritance to the nearest kinsman of his
clan, and he shall possess it. And it shall be for the people of Israel a statute and rule, as the LORD commanded
Moses.'"
Num 27:12 The LORD said to Moses, "Go up into this mountain of Abarim and see the land that I have given to
the people of Israel.
Num 27:13 When you have seen it, you also shall be gathered to your people, as your brother Aaron was,
Num 27:14 because you rebelled against my word in the wilderness of Zin when the congregation quarreled,
failing to uphold me as holy at the waters before their eyes." (These are the waters of Meribah of Kadesh in the
wilderness of Zin.)
Num 27:15 Moses spoke to the LORD, saying,
Num 27:16 "Let the LORD, the God of the spirits of all flesh, appoint a man over the congregation
Num 27:17 who shall go out before them and come in before them, who shall lead them out and bring them in,
that the congregation of the LORD may not be as sheep that have no shepherd."
Num 27:18 So the LORD said to Moses, "Take Joshua the son of Nun, a man in whom is the Spirit, and lay your
hand on him.
Num 27:19 Make him stand before Eleazar the priest and all the congregation, and you shall commission him in
their sight.
Num 27:20 You shall invest him with some of your authority, that all the congregation of the people of Israel may
obey.
Num 27:21 And he shall stand before Eleazar the priest, who shall inquire for him by the judgment of the Urim
before the LORD. At his word they shall go out, and at his word they shall come in, both he and all the people of
Israel with him, the whole congregation."Num 27:22 And Moses did as the LORD commanded him. He took Joshua and made him stand before Eleazar
the priest and the whole congregation,
Num 27:23 and he laid his hands on him and commissioned him as the LORD directed through Moses.
Num 28:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 28:2 "Command the people of Israel and say to them, 'My offering, my food for my food offerings, my
pleasing aroma, you shall be careful to offer to me at its appointed time.'
Num 28:3 And you shall say to them, This is the food offering that you shall offer to the LORD: two male lambs
a year old without blemish, day by day, as a regular offering.
Num 28:4 The one lamb you shall offer in the morning, and the other lamb you shall offer at twilight;
Num 28:5 also a tenth of an ephah of fine flour for a grain offering, mixed with a quarter of a hin of beaten oil.
Num 28:6 It is a regular burnt offering, which was ordained at Mount Sinai for a pleasing aroma, a food offering
to the LORD.
Num 28:7 Its drink offering shall be a quarter of a hin for each lamb. In the Holy Place you shall pour out a drink
offering of strong drink to the LORD.
Num 28:8 The other lamb you shall offer at twilight. Like the grain offering of the morning, and like its drink
offering, you shall offer it as a food offering, with a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
Num 28:9 "On the Sabbath day, two male lambs a year old without blemish, and two tenths of an ephah of fine
flour for a grain offering, mixed with oil, and its drink offering:
Num 28:10 this is the burnt offering of every Sabbath, besides the regular burnt offering and its drink offering.
Num 28:11 "At the beginnings of your months, you shall offer a burnt offering to the LORD: two bulls from the
herd, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish;
Num 28:12 also three tenths of an ephah of fine flour for a grain offering, mixed with oil, for each bull, and two
tenths of fine flour for a grain offering, mixed with oil, for the one ram;
Num 28:13 and a tenth of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering for every lamb; for a burnt offering with a
pleasing aroma, a food offering to the LORD.
Num 28:14 Their drink offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bull, a third of a hin for a ram, and a quarter of a
hin for a lamb. This is the burnt offering of each month throughout the months of the year.
Num 28:15 Also one male goat for a sin offering to the LORD; it shall be offered besides the regular burnt
offering and its drink offering.
Num 28:16 "On the fourteenth day of the first month is the LORD's Passover,
Num 28:17 and on the fifteenth day of this month is a feast. Seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
Num 28:18 On the first day there shall be a holy convocation. You shall not do any ordinary work,
Num 28:19 but offer a food offering, a burnt offering to the LORD: two bulls from the herd, one ram, and seven
male lambs a year old; see that they are without blemish;
Num 28:20 also their grain offering of fine flour mixed with oil; three tenths of an ephah shall you offer for a bull,
and two tenths for a ram;
Num 28:21 a tenth shall you offer for each of the seven lambs;
Num 28:22 also one male goat for a sin offering, to make atonement for you.
Num 28:23 You shall offer these besides the burnt offering of the morning, which is for a regular burnt offering.
Num 28:24 In the same way you shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of a food offering, with a pleasing
aroma to the LORD. It shall be offered besides the regular burnt offering and its drink offering.
Num 28:25 And on the seventh day you shall have a holy convocation. You shall not do any ordinary work.
Num 28:26 "On the day of the firstfruits, when you offer a grain offering of new grain to the LORD at your Feast
of Weeks, you shall have a holy convocation. You shall not do any ordinary work,
Num 28:27 but offer a burnt offering, with a pleasing aroma to the LORD: two bulls from the herd, one ram,
seven male lambs a year old;
Num 28:28 also their grain offering of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths of an ephah for each bull, two tenths
for one ram,
Num 28:29 a tenth for each of the seven lambs;
Num 28:30 with one male goat, to make atonement for you.
Num 28:31 Besides the regular burnt offering and its grain offering, you shall offer them and their drink offering.
See that they are without blemish.
Num 29:1 "On the first day of the seventh month you shall have a holy convocation. You shall not do any
ordinary work. It is a day for you to blow the trumpets,
Num 29:2 and you shall offer a burnt offering, for a pleasing aroma to the LORD: one bull from the herd, one
ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish;
Num 29:3 also their grain offering of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths of an ephah for the bull, two tenths for
the ram,
Num 29:4 and one tenth for each of the seven lambs;Num 29:5 with one male goat for a sin offering, to make atonement for you;
Num 29:6 besides the burnt offering of the new moon, and its grain offering, and the regular burnt offering and
its grain offering, and their drink offering, according to the rule for them, for a pleasing aroma, a food offering to
the LORD.
Num 29:7 "On the tenth day of this seventh month you shall have a holy convocation and afflict yourselves. You
shall do no work,
Num 29:8 but you shall offer a burnt offering to the LORD, a pleasing aroma: one bull from the herd, one ram,
seven male lambs a year old: see that they are without blemish.
Num 29:9 And their grain offering shall be of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths of an ephah for the bull, two
tenths for the one ram,
Num 29:10 a tenth for each of the seven lambs:
Num 29:11 also one male goat for a sin offering, besides the sin offering of atonement, and the regular burnt
offering and its grain offering, and their drink offerings.
Num 29:12 "On the fifteenth day of the seventh month you shall have a holy convocation. You shall not do any
ordinary work, and you shall keep a feast to the LORD seven days.
Num 29:13 And you shall offer a burnt offering, a food offering, with a pleasing aroma to the LORD, thirteen
bulls from the herd, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old; they shall be without blemish;
Num 29:14 and their grain offering of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths of an ephah for each of the thirteen
bulls, two tenths for each of the two rams,
Num 29:15 and a tenth for each of the fourteen lambs;
Num 29:16 also one male goat for a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering and its
drink offering.
Num 29:17 "On the second day twelve bulls from the herd, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without
blemish,
Num 29:18 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the
prescribed quantities;
Num 29:19 also one male goat for a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering and its grain offering, and
their drink offerings.
Num 29:20 "On the third day eleven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish,
Num 29:21 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the
prescribed quantities;
Num 29:22 also one male goat for a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering and its grain offering and its
drink offering.
Num 29:23 "On the fourth day ten bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish,
Num 29:24 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the
prescribed quantities;
Num 29:25 also one male goat for a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering and its
drink offering.
Num 29:26 "On the fifth day nine bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish,
Num 29:27 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the
prescribed quantities;
Num 29:28 also one male goat for a sin offering; besides the regular burnt offering and its grain offering and its
drink offering.
Num 29:29 "On the sixth day eight bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish,
Num 29:30 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the
prescribed quantities;
Num 29:31 also one male goat for a sin offering; besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and its
drink offerings.
Num 29:32 "On the seventh day seven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish,
Num 29:33 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the
prescribed quantities;
Num 29:34 also one male goat for a sin offering; besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and its
drink offering.
Num 29:35 "On the eighth day you shall have a solemn assembly. You shall not do any ordinary work,
Num 29:36 but you shall offer a burnt offering, a food offering, with a pleasing aroma to the LORD: one bull, one
ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish,
Num 29:37 and the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bull, for the ram, and for the lambs, in the
prescribed quantities;
Num 29:38 also one male goat for a sin offering; besides the regular burnt offering and its grain offering and itsdrink offering.
Num 29:39 "These you shall offer to the LORD at your appointed feasts, in addition to your vow offerings and
your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings, and for your grain offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for
your peace offerings."
Num 29:40 So Moses told the people of Israel everything just as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Num 30:1 Moses spoke to the heads of the tribes of the people of Israel, saying, "This is what the LORD has
commanded.
Num 30:2 If a man vows a vow to the LORD, or swears an oath to bind himself by a pledge, he shall not break
his word. He shall do according to all that proceeds out of his mouth.
Num 30:3 If a woman vows a vow to the LORD and binds herself by a pledge, while within her father's house in
her youth,
Num 30:4 and her father hears of her vow and of her pledge by which she has bound herself and says nothing
to her, then all her vows shall stand, and every pledge by which she has bound herself shall stand.
Num 30:5 But if her father opposes her on the day that he hears of it, no vow of hers, no pledge by which she
has bound herself shall stand. And the LORD will forgive her, because her father opposed her.
Num 30:6 If she marries a husband, while under her vows or any thoughtless utterance of her lips by which she
has bound herself,
Num 30:7 and her husband hears of it and says nothing to her on the day that he hears, then her vows shall
stand, and her pledges by which she has bound herself shall stand.
Num 30:8 But if, on the day that her husband comes to hear of it, he opposes her, then he makes void her vow
that was on her, and the thoughtless utterance of her lips by which she bound herself. And the LORD will forgive
her.
Num 30:9 (But any vow of a widow or of a divorced woman, anything by which she has bound herself, shall
stand against her.)
Num 30:10 And if she vowed in her husband's house or bound herself by a pledge with an oath,
Num 30:11 and her husband heard of it and said nothing to her and did not oppose her, then all her vows shall
stand, and every pledge by which she bound herself shall stand.
Num 30:12 But if her husband makes them null and void on the day that he hears them, then whatever
proceeds out of her lips concerning her vows or concerning her pledge of herself shall not stand. Her husband
has made them void, and the LORD will forgive her.
Num 30:13 Any vow and any binding oath to afflict herself, her husband may establish, or her husband may
make void.
Num 30:14 But if her husband says nothing to her from day to day, then he establishes all her vows or all her
pledges that are upon her. He has established them, because he said nothing to her on the day that he heard of
them.
Num 30:15 But if he makes them null and void after he has heard of them, then he shall bear her iniquity."
Num 30:16 These are the statutes that the LORD commanded Moses about a man and his wife and about a
father and his daughter while she is in her youth within her father's house.
Num 31:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 31:2 "Avenge the people of Israel on the Midianites. Afterward you shall be gathered to your people."
Num 31:3 So Moses spoke to the people, saying, "Arm men from among you for the war, that they may go
against Midian to execute the LORD's vengeance on Midian.
Num 31:4 You shall send a thousand from each of the tribes of Israel to the war."
Num 31:5 So there were provided, out of the thousands of Israel, a thousand from each tribe, twelve thousand
armed for war.
Num 31:6 And Moses sent them to the war, a thousand from each tribe, together with Phinehas the son of
Eleazar the priest, with the vessels of the sanctuary and the trumpets for the alarm in his hand.
Num 31:7 They warred against Midian, as the LORD commanded Moses, and killed every male.
Num 31:8 They killed the kings of Midian with the rest of their slain, Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur, and Reba, the five
kings of Midian. And they also killed Balaam the son of Beor with the sword.
Num 31:9 And the people of Israel took captive the women of Midian and their little ones, and they took as
plunder all their cattle, their flocks, and all their goods.
Num 31:10 All their cities in the places where they lived, and all their encampments, they burned with fire,
Num 31:11 and took all the spoil and all the plunder, both of man and of beast.
Num 31:12 Then they brought the captives and the plunder and the spoil to Moses, and to Eleazar the priest,
and to the congregation of the people of Israel, at the camp on the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho.
Num 31:13 Moses and Eleazar the priest and all the chiefs of the congregation went to meet them outside the
camp.
Num 31:14 And Moses was angry with the officers of the army, the commanders of thousands and thecommanders of hundreds, who had come from service in the war.
Num 31:15 Moses said to them, "Have you let all the women live?
Num 31:16 Behold, these, on Balaam's advice, caused the people of Israel to act treacherously against the
LORD in the incident of Peor, and so the plague came among the congregation of the LORD.
Num 31:17 Now therefore, kill every male among the little ones, and kill every woman who has known man by
lying with him.
Num 31:18 But all the young girls who have not known man by lying with him keep alive for yourselves.
Num 31:19 Encamp outside the camp seven days. Whoever of you has killed any person and whoever has
touched any slain, purify yourselves and your captives on the third day and on the seventh day.
Num 31:20 You shall purify every garment, every article of skin, all work of goats' hair, and every article of
wood."
Num 31:21 Then Eleazar the priest said to the men in the army who had gone to battle: "This is the statute of
the law that the LORD has commanded Moses:
Num 31:22 only the gold, the silver, the bronze, the iron, the tin, and the lead,
Num 31:23 everything that can stand the fire, you shall pass through the fire, and it shall be clean.
Nevertheless, it shall also be purified with the water for impurity. And whatever cannot stand the fire, you shall
pass through the water.
Num 31:24 You must wash your clothes on the seventh day, and you shall be clean. And afterward you may
come into the camp."
Num 31:25 The LORD said to Moses,
Num 31:26 "Take the count of the plunder that was taken, both of man and of beast, you and Eleazar the priest
and the heads of the fathers' houses of the congregation,
Num 31:27 and divide the plunder into two parts between the warriors who went out to battle and all the
congregation.
Num 31:28 And levy for the LORD a tribute from the men of war who went out to battle, one out of five hundred,
of the people and of the oxen and of the donkeys and of the flocks.
Num 31:29 Take it from their half and give it to Eleazar the priest as a contribution to the LORD.
Num 31:30 And from the people of Israel's half you shall take one drawn out of every fifty, of the people, of the
oxen, of the donkeys, and of the flocks, of all the cattle, and give them to the Levites who keep guard over the
tabernacle of the LORD."
Num 31:31 And Moses and Eleazar the priest did as the LORD commanded Moses.
Num 31:32 Now the plunder remaining of the spoil that the army took was 675,000 sheep,
Num 31:33 72,000 cattle,
Num 31:34 61,000 donkeys,
Num 31:35 and 32,000 persons in all, women who had not known man by lying with him.
Num 31:36 And the half, the portion of those who had gone out in the army, numbered 337,500 sheep,
Num 31:37 and the LORD's tribute of sheep was 675.
Num 31:38 The cattle were 36,000, of which the LORD's tribute was 72.
Num 31:39 The donkeys were 30,500, of which the LORD's tribute was 61.
Num 31:40 The persons were 16,000, of which the LORD's tribute was 32 persons.
Num 31:41 And Moses gave the tribute, which was the contribution for the LORD, to Eleazar the priest, as the
LORD commanded Moses.
Num 31:42 From the people of Israel's half, which Moses separated from that of the men who had served in the
armyNum 31:43 now the congregation's half was 337,500 sheep,
Num 31:44 36,000 cattle,
Num 31:45 and 30,500 donkeys,
Num 31:46 and 16,000 personsNum 31:47 from the people of Israel's half Moses took one of every 50, both of persons and of beasts, and gave
them to the Levites who kept guard over the tabernacle of the LORD, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Num 31:48 Then the officers who were over the thousands of the army, the commanders of thousands and the
commanders of hundreds, came near to Moses
Num 31:49 and said to Moses, "Your servants have counted the men of war who are under our command, and
there is not a man missing from us.
Num 31:50 And we have brought the LORD's offering, what each man found, articles of gold, armlets and
bracelets, signet rings, earrings, and beads, to make atonement for ourselves before the LORD."
Num 31:51 And Moses and Eleazar the priest received from them the gold, all crafted articles.
Num 31:52 And all the gold of the contribution that they presented to the LORD, from the commanders of
thousands and the commanders of hundreds, was 16,750 shekels.Num 31:53 (The men in the army had each taken plunder for himself.)
Num 31:54 And Moses and Eleazar the priest received the gold from the commanders of thousands and of
hundreds, and brought it into the tent of meeting, as a memorial for the people of Israel before the LORD.
Num 32:1 Now the people of Reuben and the people of Gad had a very great number of livestock. And they saw
the land of Jazer and the land of Gilead, and behold, the place was a place for livestock.
Num 32:2 So the people of Gad and the people of Reuben came and said to Moses and to Eleazar the priest
and to the chiefs of the congregation,
Num 32:3 "Ataroth, Dibon, Jazer, Nimrah, Heshbon, Elealeh, Sebam, Nebo, and Beon,
Num 32:4 the land that the LORD struck down before the congregation of Israel, is a land for livestock, and your
servants have livestock."
Num 32:5 And they said, "If we have found favor in your sight, let this land be given to your servants for a
possession. Do not take us across the Jordan."
Num 32:6 But Moses said to the people of Gad and to the people of Reuben, "Shall your brothers go to the war
while you sit here?
Num 32:7 Why will you discourage the heart of the people of Israel from going over into the land that the LORD
has given them?
Num 32:8 Your fathers did this, when I sent them from Kadesh-barnea to see the land.
Num 32:9 For when they went up to the Valley of Eshcol and saw the land, they discouraged the heart of the
people of Israel from going into the land that the LORD had given them.
Num 32:10 And the LORD's anger was kindled on that day, and he swore, saying,
Num 32:11 'Surely none of the men who came up out of Egypt, from twenty years old and upward, shall see the
land that I swore to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, because they have not wholly followed me,
Num 32:12 none except Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite and Joshua the son of Nun, for they have
wholly followed the LORD.'
Num 32:13 And the LORD's anger was kindled against Israel, and he made them wander in the wilderness forty
years, until all the generation that had done evil in the sight of the LORD was gone.
Num 32:14 And behold, you have risen in your fathers' place, a brood of sinful men, to increase still more the
fierce anger of the LORD against Israel!
Num 32:15 For if you turn away from following him, he will again abandon them in the wilderness, and you will
destroy all this people."
Num 32:16 Then they came near to him and said, "We will build sheepfolds here for our livestock, and cities for
our little ones,
Num 32:17 but we will take up arms, ready to go before the people of Israel, until we have brought them to their
place. And our little ones shall live in the fortified cities because of the inhabitants of the land.
Num 32:18 We will not return to our homes until each of the people of Israel has gained his inheritance.
Num 32:19 For we will not inherit with them on the other side of the Jordan and beyond, because our
inheritance has come to us on this side of the Jordan to the east."
Num 32:20 So Moses said to them, "If you will do this, if you will take up arms to go before the LORD for the
war,
Num 32:21 and every armed man of you will pass over the Jordan before the LORD, until he has driven out his
enemies from before him
Num 32:22 and the land is subdued before the LORD; then after that you shall return and be free of obligation to
the LORD and to Israel, and this land shall be your possession before the LORD.
Num 32:23 But if you will not do so, behold, you have sinned against the LORD, and be sure your sin will find
you out.
Num 32:24 Build cities for your little ones and folds for your sheep, and do what you have promised."
Num 32:25 And the people of Gad and the people of Reuben said to Moses, "Your servants will do as my lord
commands.
Num 32:26 Our little ones, our wives, our livestock, and all our cattle, shall remain there in the cities of Gilead,
Num 32:27 but your servants will pass over, every man who is armed for war, before the LORD to battle, as my
lord orders."
Num 32:28 So Moses gave command concerning them to Eleazar the priest and to Joshua the son of Nun and
to the heads of the fathers' houses of the tribes of the people of Israel.
Num 32:29 And Moses said to them, "If the people of Gad and the people of Reuben, every man who is armed
to battle before the LORD, will pass with you over the Jordan and the land shall be subdued before you, then
you shall give them the land of Gilead for a possession.
Num 32:30 However, if they will not pass over with you armed, they shall have possessions among you in the
land of Canaan."
Num 32:31 And the people of Gad and the people of Reuben answered, "What the LORD has said to yourservants, we will do.
Num 32:32 We will pass over armed before the LORD into the land of Canaan, and the possession of our
inheritance shall remain with us beyond the Jordan."
Num 32:33 And Moses gave to them, to the people of Gad and to the people of Reuben and to the half-tribe of
Manasseh the son of Joseph, the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites and the kingdom of Og king of Bashan,
the land and its cities with their territories, the cities of the land throughout the country.
Num 32:34 And the people of Gad built Dibon, Ataroth, Aroer,
Num 32:35 Atroth-shophan, Jazer, Jogbehah,
Num 32:36 Beth-nimrah and Beth-haran, fortified cities, and folds for sheep.
Num 32:37 And the people of Reuben built Heshbon, Elealeh, Kiriathaim,
Num 32:38 Nebo, and Baal-meon ( their names were changed), and Sibmah. And they gave other names to the
cities that they built.
Num 32:39 And the sons of Machir the son of Manasseh went to Gilead and captured it, and dispossessed the
Amorites who were in it.
Num 32:40 And Moses gave Gilead to Machir the son of Manasseh, and he settled in it.
Num 32:41 And Jair the son of Manasseh went and captured their villages, and called them Havvoth-jair.
Num 32:42 And Nobah went and captured Kenath and its villages, and called it Nobah, after his own name.
Num 33:1 These are the stages of the people of Israel, when they went out of the land of Egypt by their
companies under the leadership of Moses and Aaron.
Num 33:2 Moses wrote down their starting places, stage by stage, by command of the LORD, and these are
their stages according to their starting places.
Num 33:3 They set out from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month. On the day after
the Passover, the people of Israel went out triumphantly in the sight of all the Egyptians,
Num 33:4 while the Egyptians were burying all their firstborn, whom the LORD had struck down among them.
On their gods also the LORD executed judgments.
Num 33:5 So the people of Israel set out from Rameses and camped at Succoth.
Num 33:6 And they set out from Succoth and camped at Etham, which is on the edge of the wilderness.
Num 33:7 And they set out from Etham and turned back to Pihahiroth, which is east of Baal-zephon, and they
camped before Migdol.
Num 33:8 And they set out from before Hahiroth and passed through the midst of the sea into the wilderness,
and they went a three days' journey in the wilderness of Etham and camped at Marah.
Num 33:9 And they set out from Marah and came to Elim; at Elim there were twelve springs of water and
seventy palm trees, and they camped there.
Num 33:10 And they set out from Elim and camped by the Red Sea.
Num 33:11 And they set out from the Red Sea and camped in the wilderness of Sin.
Num 33:12 And they set out from the wilderness of Sin and camped at Dophkah.
Num 33:13 And they set out from Dophkah and camped at Alush.
Num 33:14 And they set out from Alush and camped at Rephidim, where there was no water for the people to
drink.
Num 33:15 And they set out from Rephidim and camped in the wilderness of Sinai.
Num 33:16 And they set out from the wilderness of Sinai and camped at Kibroth-hattaavah.
Num 33:17 And they set out from Kibroth-hattaavah and camped at Hazeroth.
Num 33:18 And they set out from Hazeroth and camped at Rithmah.
Num 33:19 And they set out from Rithmah and camped at Rimmon-perez.
Num 33:20 And they set out from Rimmon-perez and camped at Libnah.
Num 33:21 And they set out from Libnah and camped at Rissah.
Num 33:22 And they set out from Rissah and camped at Kehelathah.
Num 33:23 And they set out from Kehelathah and camped at Mount Shepher.
Num 33:24 And they set out from Mount Shepher and camped at Haradah.
Num 33:25 And they set out from Haradah and camped at Makheloth.
Num 33:26 And they set out from Makheloth and camped at Tahath.
Num 33:27 And they set out from Tahath and camped at Terah.
Num 33:28 And they set out from Terah and camped at Mithkah.
Num 33:29 And they set out from Mithkah and camped at Hashmonah.
Num 33:30 And they set out from Hashmonah and camped at Moseroth.
Num 33:31 And they set out from Moseroth and camped at Bene-jaakan.
Num 33:32 And they set out from Bene-jaakan and camped at Hor-haggidgad.
Num 33:33 And they set out from Hor-haggidgad and camped at Jotbathah.
Num 33:34 And they set out from Jotbathah and camped at Abronah.Num 33:35 And they set out from Abronah and camped at Ezion-geber.
Num 33:36 And they set out from Ezion-geber and camped in the wilderness of Zin (that is, Kadesh).
Num 33:37 And they set out from Kadesh and camped at Mount Hor, on the edge of the land of Edom.
Num 33:38 And Aaron the priest went up Mount Hor at the command of the LORD and died there, in the fortieth
year after the people of Israel had come out of the land of Egypt, on the first day of the fifth month.
Num 33:39 And Aaron was 123 years old when he died on Mount Hor.
Num 33:40 And the Canaanite, the king of Arad, who lived in the Negeb in the land of Canaan, heard of the
coming of the people of Israel.
Num 33:41 And they set out from Mount Hor and camped at Zalmonah.
Num 33:42 And they set out from Zalmonah and camped at Punon.
Num 33:43 And they set out from Punon and camped at Oboth.
Num 33:44 And they set out from Oboth and camped at Iye-abarim, in the territory of Moab.
Num 33:45 And they set out from Iyim and camped at Dibon-gad.
Num 33:46 And they set out from Dibon-gad and camped at Almon-diblathaim.
Num 33:47 And they set out from Almon-diblathaim and camped in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo.
Num 33:48 And they set out from the mountains of Abarim and camped in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at
Jericho;
Num 33:49 they camped by the Jordan from Beth-jeshimoth as far as Abel-shittim in the plains of Moab.
Num 33:50 And the LORD spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying,
Num 33:51 "Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When you pass over the Jordan into the land of
Canaan,
Num 33:52 then you shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land from before you and destroy all their figured
stones and destroy all their metal images and demolish all their high places.
Num 33:53 And you shall take possession of the land and settle in it, for I have given the land to you to possess
it.
Num 33:54 You shall inherit the land by lot according to your clans. To a large tribe you shall give a large
inheritance, and to a small tribe you shall give a small inheritance. Wherever the lot falls for anyone, that shall be
his. According to the tribes of your fathers you shall inherit.
Num 33:55 But if you do not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you, then those of them whom you
let remain shall be as barbs in your eyes and thorns in your sides, and they shall trouble you in the land where
you dwell.
Num 33:56 And I will do to you as I thought to do to them."
Num 34:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 34:2 "Command the people of Israel, and say to them, When you enter the land of Canaan (this is the land
that shall fall to you for an inheritance, the land of Canaan as defined by its borders),
Num 34:3 your south side shall be from the wilderness of Zin alongside Edom, and your southern border shall
run from the end of the Salt Sea on the east.
Num 34:4 And your border shall turn south of the ascent of Akrabbim, and cross to Zin, and its limit shall be
south of Kadesh-barnea. Then it shall go on to Hazar-addar, and pass along to Azmon.
Num 34:5 And the border shall turn from Azmon to the Brook of Egypt, and its limit shall be at the sea.
Num 34:6 "For the western border, you shall have the Great Sea and its coast. This shall be your western
border.
Num 34:7 "This shall be your northern border: from the Great Sea you shall draw a line to Mount Hor.
Num 34:8 From Mount Hor you shall draw a line to Lebo-hamath, and the limit of the border shall be at Zedad.
Num 34:9 Then the border shall extend to Ziphron, and its limit shall be at Hazar-enan. This shall be your
northern border.
Num 34:10 "You shall draw a line for your eastern border from Hazar-enan to Shepham.
Num 34:11 And the border shall go down from Shepham to Riblah on the east side of Ain. And the border shall
go down and reach to the shoulder of the Sea of Chinnereth on the east.
Num 34:12 And the border shall go down to the Jordan, and its limit shall be at the Salt Sea. This shall be your
land as defined by its borders all around."
Num 34:13 Moses commanded the people of Israel, saying, "This is the land that you shall inherit by lot, which
the LORD has commanded to give to the nine tribes and to the half-tribe.
Num 34:14 For the tribe of the people of Reuben by fathers' houses and the tribe of the people of Gad by their
fathers' houses have received their inheritance, and also the half-tribe of Manasseh.
Num 34:15 The two tribes and the half-tribe have received their inheritance beyond the Jordan east of Jericho,
toward the sunrise."
Num 34:16 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 34:17 "These are the names of the men who shall divide the land to you for inheritance: Eleazar the priestand Joshua the son of Nun.
Num 34:18 You shall take one chief from every tribe to divide the land for inheritance.
Num 34:19 These are the names of the men: Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
Num 34:20 Of the tribe of the people of Simeon, Shemuel the son of Ammihud.
Num 34:21 Of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad the son of Chislon.
Num 34:22 Of the tribe of the people of Dan a chief, Bukki the son of Jogli.
Num 34:23 Of the people of Joseph: of the tribe of the people of Manasseh a chief, Hanniel the son of Ephod.
Num 34:24 And of the tribe of the people of Ephraim a chief, Kemuel the son of Shiphtan.
Num 34:25 Of the tribe of the people of Zebulun a chief, Elizaphan the son of Parnach.
Num 34:26 Of the tribe of the people of Issachar a chief, Paltiel the son of Azzan.
Num 34:27 And of the tribe of the people of Asher a chief, Ahihud the son of Shelomi.
Num 34:28 Of the tribe of the people of Naphtali a chief, Pedahel the son of Ammihud.
Num 34:29 These are the men whom the LORD commanded to divide the inheritance for the people of Israel in
the land of Canaan."
Num 35:1 The LORD spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying,
Num 35:2 "Command the people of Israel to give to the Levites some of the inheritance of their possession as
cities for them to dwell in. And you shall give to the Levites pasturelands around the cities.
Num 35:3 The cities shall be theirs to dwell in, and their pasturelands shall be for their cattle and for their
livestock and for all their beasts.
Num 35:4 The pasturelands of the cities, which you shall give to the Levites, shall reach from the wall of the city
outward a thousand cubits all around.
Num 35:5 And you shall measure, outside the city, on the east side two thousand cubits, and on the south side
two thousand cubits, and on the west side two thousand cubits, and on the north side two thousand cubits, the
city being in the middle. This shall belong to them as pastureland for their cities.
Num 35:6 The cities that you give to the Levites shall be the six cities of refuge, where you shall permit the
manslayer to flee, and in addition to them you shall give forty-two cities.
Num 35:7 All the cities that you give to the Levites shall be forty-eight, with their pasturelands.
Num 35:8 And as for the cities that you shall give from the possession of the people of Israel, from the larger
tribes you shall take many, and from the smaller tribes you shall take few; each, in proportion to the inheritance
that it inherits, shall give of its cities to the Levites."
Num 35:9 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Num 35:10 "Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When you cross the Jordan into the land of Canaan,
Num 35:11 then you shall select cities to be cities of refuge for you, that the manslayer who kills any person
without intent may flee there.
Num 35:12 The cities shall be for you a refuge from the avenger, that the manslayer may not die until he stands
before the congregation for judgment.
Num 35:13 And the cities that you give shall be your six cities of refuge.
Num 35:14 You shall give three cities beyond the Jordan, and three cities in the land of Canaan, to be cities of
refuge.
Num 35:15 These six cities shall be for refuge for the people of Israel, and for the stranger and for the sojourner
among them, that anyone who kills any person without intent may flee there.
Num 35:16 "But if he struck him down with an iron object, so that he died, he is a murderer. The murderer shall
be put to death.
Num 35:17 And if he struck him down with a stone tool that could cause death, and he died, he is a murderer.
The murderer shall be put to death.
Num 35:18 Or if he struck him down with a wooden tool that could cause death, and he died, he is a murderer.
The murderer shall be put to death.
Num 35:19 The avenger of blood shall himself put the murderer to death; when he meets him, he shall put him
to death.
Num 35:20 And if he pushed him out of hatred or hurled something at him, lying in wait, so that he died,
Num 35:21 or in enmity struck him down with his hand, so that he died, then he who struck the blow shall be put
to death. He is a murderer. The avenger of blood shall put the murderer to death when he meets him.
Num 35:22 "But if he pushed him suddenly without enmity, or hurled anything on him without lying in wait
Num 35:23 or used a stone that could cause death, and without seeing him dropped it on him, so that he died,
though he was not his enemy and did not seek his harm,
Num 35:24 then the congregation shall judge between the manslayer and the avenger of blood, in accordance
with these rules.
Num 35:25 And the congregation shall rescue the manslayer from the hand of the avenger of blood, and the
congregation shall restore him to his city of refuge to which he had fled, and he shall live in it until the death ofthe high priest who was anointed with the holy oil.
Num 35:26 But if the manslayer shall at any time go beyond the boundaries of his city of refuge to which he fled,
Num 35:27 and the avenger of blood finds him outside the boundaries of his city of refuge, and the avenger of
blood kills the manslayer, he shall not be guilty of blood.
Num 35:28 For he must remain in his city of refuge until the death of the high priest, but after the death of the
high priest the manslayer may return to the land of his possession.
Num 35:29 And these things shall be for a statute and rule for you throughout your generations in all your
dwelling places.
Num 35:30 "If anyone kills a person, the murderer shall be put to death on the evidence of witnesses. But no
person shall be put to death on the testimony of one witness.
Num 35:31 Moreover, you shall accept no ransom for the life of a murderer, who is guilty of death, but he shall
be put to death.
Num 35:32 And you shall accept no ransom for him who has fled to his city of refuge, that he may return to
dwell in the land before the death of the high priest.
Num 35:33 You shall not pollute the land in which you live, for blood pollutes the land, and no atonement can be
made for the land for the blood that is shed in it, except by the blood of the one who shed it.
Num 35:34 You shall not defile the land in which you live, in the midst of which I dwell, for I the LORD dwell in
the midst of the people of Israel."
Num 36:1 The heads of the fathers' houses of the clan of the people of Gilead the son of Machir, son of
Manasseh, from the clans of the people of Joseph, came near and spoke before Moses and before the chiefs,
the heads of the fathers' houses of the people of Israel.
Num 36:2 They said, "The LORD commanded my lord to give the land for inheritance by lot to the people of
Israel, and my lord was commanded by the LORD to give the inheritance of Zelophehad our brother to his
daughters.
Num 36:3 But if they are married to any of the sons of the other tribes of the people of Israel, then their
inheritance will be taken from the inheritance of our fathers and added to the inheritance of the tribe into which
they marry. So it will be taken away from the lot of our inheritance.
Num 36:4 And when the jubilee of the people of Israel comes, then their inheritance will be added to the
inheritance of the tribe into which they marry, and their inheritance will be taken from the inheritance of the tribe
of our fathers."
Num 36:5 And Moses commanded the people of Israel according to the word of the LORD, saying, "The tribe of
the people of Joseph is right.
Num 36:6 This is what the LORD commands concerning the daughters of Zelophehad, 'Let them marry whom
they think best, only they shall marry within the clan of the tribe of their father.
Num 36:7 The inheritance of the people of Israel shall not be transferred from one tribe to another, for every one
of the people of Israel shall hold on to the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers.
Num 36:8 And every daughter who possesses an inheritance in any tribe of the people of Israel shall be wife to
one of the clan of the tribe of her father, so that every one of the people of Israel may possess the inheritance of
his fathers.
Num 36:9 So no inheritance shall be transferred from one tribe to another, for each of the tribes of the people of
Israel shall hold on to its own inheritance.'"
Num 36:10 The daughters of Zelophehad did as the LORD commanded Moses,
Num 36:11 for Mahlah, Tirzah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zelophehad, were married to sons
of their father's brothers.
Num 36:12 They were married into the clans of the people of Manasseh the son of Joseph, and their inheritance
remained in the tribe of their father's clan.
Num 36:13 These are the commandments and the rules that the LORD commanded through Moses to the
people of Israel in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho.
Deu 1:1 These are the words that Moses spoke to all Israel beyond the Jordan in the wilderness, in the Arabah
opposite Suph, between Paran and Tophel, Laban, Hazeroth, and Dizahab.
Deu 1:2 It is eleven days' journey from Horeb by the way of Mount Seir to Kadesh-barnea.
Deu 1:3 In the fortieth year, on the first day of the eleventh month, Moses spoke to the people of Israel
according to all that the LORD had given him in commandment to them,
Deu 1:4 after he had defeated Sihon the king of the Amorites, who lived in Heshbon, and Og the king of
Bashan, who lived in Ashtaroth and in Edrei.
Deu 1:5 Beyond the Jordan, in the land of Moab, Moses undertook to explain this law, saying,
Deu 1:6 "The LORD our God said to us in Horeb, 'You have stayed long enough at this mountain.
Deu 1:7 Turn and take your journey, and go to the hill country of the Amorites and to all their neighbors in the
Arabah, in the hill country and in the lowland and in the Negeb and by the seacoast, the land of the Canaanites,and Lebanon, as far as the great river, the river Euphrates.
Deu 1:8 See, I have set the land before you. Go in and take possession of the land that the LORD swore to your
fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give to them and to their offspring after them.'
Deu 1:9 "At that time I said to you, 'I am not able to bear you by myself.
Deu 1:10 The LORD your God has multiplied you, and behold, you are today as numerous as the stars of
heaven.
Deu 1:11 May the LORD, the God of your fathers, make you a thousand times as many as you are and bless
you, as he has promised you!
Deu 1:12 How can I bear by myself the weight and burden of you and your strife?
Deu 1:13 Choose for your tribes wise, understanding, and experienced men, and I will appoint them as your
heads.'
Deu 1:14 And you answered me, 'The thing that you have spoken is good for us to do.'
Deu 1:15 So I took the heads of your tribes, wise and experienced men, and set them as heads over you,
commanders of thousands, commanders of hundreds, commanders of fifties, commanders of tens, and officers,
throughout your tribes.
Deu 1:16 And I charged your judges at that time, 'Hear the cases between your brothers, and judge righteously
between a man and his brother or the alien who is with him.
Deu 1:17 You shall not be partial in judgment. You shall hear the small and the great alike. You shall not be
intimidated by anyone, for the judgment is God's. And the case that is too hard for you, you shall bring to me,
and I will hear it.'
Deu 1:18 And I commanded you at that time all the things that you should do.
Deu 1:19 "Then we set out from Horeb and went through all that great and terrifying wilderness that you saw, on
the way to the hill country of the Amorites, as the LORD our God commanded us. And we came to Kadeshbarnea.
Deu 1:20 And I said to you, 'You have come to the hill country of the Amorites, which the LORD our God is
giving us.
Deu 1:21 See, the LORD your God has set the land before you. Go up, take possession, as the LORD, the God
of your fathers, has told you. Do not fear or be dismayed.'
Deu 1:22 Then all of you came near me and said, 'Let us send men before us, that they may explore the land
for us and bring us word again of the way by which we must go up and the cities into which we shall come.'
Deu 1:23 The thing seemed good to me, and I took twelve men from you, one man from each tribe.
Deu 1:24 And they turned and went up into the hill country, and came to the Valley of Eshcol and spied it out.
Deu 1:25 And they took in their hands some of the fruit of the land and brought it down to us, and brought us
word again and said, 'It is a good land that the LORD our God is giving us.'
Deu 1:26 "Yet you would not go up, but rebelled against the command of the LORD your God.
Deu 1:27 And you murmured in your tents and said, 'Because the LORD hated us he has brought us out of the
land of Egypt, to give us into the hand of the Amorites, to destroy us.
Deu 1:28 Where are we going up? Our brothers have made our hearts melt, saying, "The people are greater
and taller than we. The cities are great and fortified up to heaven. And besides, we have seen the sons of the
Anakim there."'
Deu 1:29 Then I said to you, 'Do not be in dread or afraid of them.
Deu 1:30 The LORD your God who goes before you will himself fight for you, just as he did for you in Egypt
before your eyes,
Deu 1:31 and in the wilderness, where you have seen how the LORD your God carried you, as a man carries
his son, all the way that you went until you came to this place.'
Deu 1:32 Yet in spite of this word you did not believe the LORD your God,
Deu 1:33 who went before you in the way to seek you out a place to pitch your tents, in fire by night and in the
cloud by day, to show you by what way you should go.
Deu 1:34 "And the LORD heard your words and was angered, and he swore,
Deu 1:35 'Not one of these men of this evil generation shall see the good land that I swore to give to your
fathers,
Deu 1:36 except Caleb the son of Jephunneh. He shall see it, and to him and to his children I will give the land
on which he has trodden, because he has wholly followed the LORD!'
Deu 1:37 Even with me the LORD was angry on your account and said, 'You also shall not go in there.
Deu 1:38 Joshua the son of Nun, who stands before you, he shall enter. Encourage him, for he shall cause
Israel to inherit it.
Deu 1:39 And as for your little ones, who you said would become a prey, and your children, who today have no
knowledge of good or evil, they shall go in there. And to them I will give it, and they shall possess it.
Deu 1:40 But as for you, turn, and journey into the wilderness in the direction of the Red Sea.'Deu 1:41 "Then you answered me, 'We have sinned against the LORD. We ourselves will go up and fight, just
as the LORD our God commanded us.' And every one of you fastened on his weapons of war and thought it
easy to go up into the hill country.
Deu 1:42 And the LORD said to me, 'Say to them, Do not go up or fight, for I am not in your midst, lest you be
defeated before your enemies.'
Deu 1:43 So I spoke to you, and you would not listen; but you rebelled against the command of the LORD and
presumptuously went up into the hill country.
Deu 1:44 Then the Amorites who lived in that hill country came out against you and chased you as bees do and
beat you down in Seir as far as Hormah.
Deu 1:45 And you returned and wept before the LORD, but the LORD did not listen to your voice or give ear to
you.
Deu 1:46 So you remained at Kadesh many days, the days that you remained there.
Deu 2:1 "Then we turned and journeyed into the wilderness in the direction of the Red Sea, as the LORD told
me. And for many days we traveled around Mount Seir.
Deu 2:2 Then the LORD said to me,
Deu 2:3 'You have been traveling around this mountain country long enough. Turn northward
Deu 2:4 and command the people, "You are about to pass through the territory of your brothers, the people of
Esau, who live in Seir; and they will be afraid of you. So be very careful.
Deu 2:5 Do not contend with them, for I will not give you any of their land, no, not so much as for the sole of the
foot to tread on, because I have given Mount Seir to Esau as a possession.
Deu 2:6 You shall purchase food from them for money, that you may eat, and you shall also buy water of them
for money, that you may drink.
Deu 2:7 For the LORD your God has blessed you in all the work of your hands. He knows your going through
this great wilderness. These forty years the LORD your God has been with you. You have lacked nothing."'
Deu 2:8 So we went on, away from our brothers, the people of Esau, who live in Seir, away from the Arabah
road from Elath and Ezion-geber. "And we turned and went in the direction of the wilderness of Moab.
Deu 2:9 And the LORD said to me, 'Do not harass Moab or contend with them in battle, for I will not give you
any of their land for a possession, because I have given Ar to the people of Lot for a possession.'
Deu 2:10 ( The Emim formerly lived there, a people great and many, and tall as the Anakim.
Deu 2:11 Like the Anakim they are also counted as Rephaim, but the Moabites call them Emim.
Deu 2:12 The Horites also lived in Seir formerly, but the people of Esau dispossessed them and destroyed them
from before them and settled in their place, as Israel did to the land of their possession, which the LORD gave to
them.)
Deu 2:13 'Now rise up and go over the brook Zered.' So we went over the brook Zered.
Deu 2:14 And the time from our leaving Kadesh-barnea until we crossed the brook Zered was thirty-eight years,
until the entire generation, that is, the men of war, had perished from the camp, as the LORD had sworn to them.
Deu 2:15 For indeed the hand of the LORD was against them, to destroy them from the camp, until they had
perished.
Deu 2:16 "So as soon as all the men of war had perished and were dead from among the people,
Deu 2:17 the LORD said to me,
Deu 2:18 'Today you are to cross the border of Moab at Ar.
Deu 2:19 And when you approach the territory of the people of Ammon, do not harass them or contend with
them, for I will not give you any of the land of the people of Ammon as a possession, because I have given it to
the sons of Lot for a possession.'
Deu 2:20 (It is also counted as a land of Rephaim. Rephaim formerly lived there- but the Ammonites call them
ZamzummimDeu 2:21 a people great and many, and tall as the Anakim; but the LORD destroyed them before the
Ammonites, and they dispossessed them and settled in their place,
Deu 2:22 as he did for the people of Esau, who live in Seir, when he destroyed the Horites before them and they
dispossessed them and settled in their place even to this day.
Deu 2:23 As for the Avvim, who lived in villages as far as Gaza, the Caphtorim, who came from Caphtor,
destroyed them and settled in their place.)
Deu 2:24 'Rise up, set out on your journey and go over the Valley of the Arnon. Behold, I have given into your
hand Sihon the Amorite, king of Heshbon, and his land. Begin to take possession, and contend with him in
battle.
Deu 2:25 This day I will begin to put the dread and fear of you on the peoples who are under the whole heaven,
who shall hear the report of you and shall tremble and be in anguish because of you.'
Deu 2:26 "So I sent messengers from the wilderness of Kedemoth to Sihon the king of Heshbon, with words of
peace, saying,Deu 2:27 'Let me pass through your land. I will go only by the road; I will turn aside neither to the right nor to the
left.
Deu 2:28 You shall sell me food for money, that I may eat, and give me water for money, that I may drink. Only
let me pass through on foot,
Deu 2:29 as the sons of Esau who live in Seir and the Moabites who live in Ar did for me, until I go over the
Jordan into the land that the LORD our God is giving to us.'
Deu 2:30 But Sihon the king of Heshbon would not let us pass by him, for the LORD your God hardened his
spirit and made his heart obstinate, that he might give him into your hand, as he is this day.
Deu 2:31 And the LORD said to me, 'Behold, I have begun to give Sihon and his land over to you. Begin to take
possession, that you may occupy his land.'
Deu 2:32 Then Sihon came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Jahaz.
Deu 2:33 And the LORD our God gave him over to us, and we defeated him and his sons and all his people.
Deu 2:34 And we captured all his cities at that time and devoted to destruction every city, men, women, and
children. We left no survivors.
Deu 2:35 Only the livestock we took as spoil for ourselves, with the plunder of the cities that we captured.
Deu 2:36 From Aroer, which is on the edge of the Valley of the Arnon, and from the city that is in the valley, as
far as Gilead, there was not a city too high for us. The LORD our God gave all into our hands.
Deu 2:37 Only to the land of the sons of Ammon you did not draw near, that is, to all the banks of the river
Jabbok and the cities of the hill country, whatever the LORD our God had forbidden us.
Deu 3:1 "Then we turned and went up the way to Bashan. And Og the king of Bashan came out against us, he
and all his people, to battle at Edrei.
Deu 3:2 But the LORD said to me, 'Do not fear him, for I have given him and all his people and his land into
your hand. And you shall do to him as you did to Sihon the king of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon.'
Deu 3:3 So the LORD our God gave into our hand Og also, the king of Bashan, and all his people, and we
struck him down until he had no survivor left.
Deu 3:4 And we took all his cities at that time- there was not a city that we did not take from them- sixty cities,
the whole region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
Deu 3:5 All these were cities fortified with high walls, gates, and bars, besides very many unwalled villages.
Deu 3:6 And we devoted them to destruction, as we did to Sihon the king of Heshbon, devoting to destruction
every city, men, women, and children.
Deu 3:7 But all the livestock and the spoil of the cities we took as our plunder.
Deu 3:8 So we took the land at that time out of the hand of the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the
Jordan, from the Valley of the Arnon to Mount Hermon
Deu 3:9 (the Sidonians call Hermon Sirion, while the Amorites call it Senir),
Deu 3:10 all the cities of the tableland and all Gilead and all Bashan, as far as Salecah and Edrei, cities of the
kingdom of Og in Bashan.
Deu 3:11 (For only Og the king of Bashan was left of the remnant of the Rephaim. Behold, his bed was a bed of
iron. Is it not in Rabbah of the Ammonites? Nine cubits was its length, and four cubits its breadth, according to
the common cubit.)
Deu 3:12 "When we took possession of this land at that time, I gave to the Reubenites and the Gadites the
territory beginning at Aroer, which is on the edge of the Valley of the Arnon, and half the hill country of Gilead
with its cities.
Deu 3:13 The rest of Gilead, and all Bashan, the kingdom of Og, that is, all the region of Argob, I gave to the
half-tribe of Manasseh. (All that portion of Bashan is called the land of Rephaim.
Deu 3:14 Jair the Manassite took all the region of Argob, that is, Bashan, as far as the border of the Geshurites
and the Maacathites, and called the villages after his own name, Havvoth-jair, as it is to this day.)
Deu 3:15 To Machir I gave Gilead,
Deu 3:16 and to the Reubenites and the Gadites I gave the territory from Gilead as far as the Valley of the
Arnon, with the middle of the valley as a border, as far over as the river Jabbok, the border of the Ammonites;
Deu 3:17 the Arabah also, with the Jordan as the border, from Chinnereth as far as the Sea of the Arabah, the
Salt Sea, under the slopes of Pisgah on the east.
Deu 3:18 "And I commanded you at that time, saying, 'The LORD your God has given you this land to possess.
All your men of valor shall cross over armed before your brothers, the people of Israel.
Deu 3:19 Only your wives, your little ones, and your livestock (I know that you have much livestock) shall remain
in the cities that I have given you,
Deu 3:20 until the LORD gives rest to your brothers, as to you, and they also occupy the land that the LORD
your God gives them beyond the Jordan. Then each of you may return to his possession which I have given
you.'
Deu 3:21 And I commanded Joshua at that time, 'Your eyes have seen all that the LORD your God has done tothese two kings. So will the LORD do to all the kingdoms into which you are crossing.
Deu 3:22 You shall not fear them, for it is the LORD your God who fights for you.'
Deu 3:23 "And I pleaded with the LORD at that time, saying,
Deu 3:24 'O Lord GOD, you have only begun to show your servant your greatness and your mighty hand. For
what god is there in heaven or on earth who can do such works and mighty acts as yours?
Deu 3:25 Please let me go over and see the good land beyond the Jordan, that good hill country and Lebanon.'
Deu 3:26 But the LORD was angry with me because of you and would not listen to me. And the LORD said to
me, 'Enough from you; do not speak to me of this matter again.
Deu 3:27 Go up to the top of Pisgah and lift up your eyes westward and northward and southward and
eastward, and look at it with your eyes, for you shall not go over this Jordan.
Deu 3:28 But charge Joshua, and encourage and strengthen him, for he shall go over at the head of this people,
and he shall put them in possession of the land that you shall see.'
Deu 3:29 So we remained in the valley opposite Beth-peor.
Deu 4:1 "And now, O Israel, listen to the statutes and the rules that I am teaching you, and do them, that you
may live, and go in and take possession of the land that the LORD, the God of your fathers, is giving you.
Deu 4:2 You shall not add to the word that I command you, nor take from it, that you may keep the
commandments of the LORD your God that I command you.
Deu 4:3 Your eyes have seen what the LORD did at Baal-peor, for the LORD your God destroyed from among
you all the men who followed the Baal of Peor.
Deu 4:4 But you who held fast to the LORD your God are all alive today.
Deu 4:5 See, I have taught you statutes and rules, as the LORD my God commanded me, that you should do
them in the land that you are entering to take possession of it.
Deu 4:6 Keep them and do them, for that will be your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the
peoples, who, when they hear all these statutes, will say, 'Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding
people.'
Deu 4:7 For what great nation is there that has a god so near to it as the LORD our God is to us, whenever we
call upon him?
Deu 4:8 And what great nation is there, that has statutes and rules so righteous as all this law that I set before
you today?
Deu 4:9 "Only take care, and keep your soul diligently, lest you forget the things that your eyes have seen, and
lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life. Make them known to your children and your children's
childrenDeu 4:10 how on the day that you stood before the LORD your God at Horeb, the LORD said to me, 'Gather the
people to me, that I may let them hear my words, so that they may learn to fear me all the days that they live on
the earth, and that they may teach their children so.'
Deu 4:11 And you came near and stood at the foot of the mountain, while the mountain burned with fire to the
heart of heaven, wrapped in darkness, cloud, and gloom.
Deu 4:12 Then the LORD spoke to you out of the midst of the fire. You heard the sound of words, but saw no
form; there was only a voice.
Deu 4:13 And he declared to you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform, that is, the Ten Com
mandments, and he wrote them on two tablets of stone.
Deu 4:14 And the LORD commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and rules, that you might do them in
the land that you are going over to possess.
Deu 4:15 "Therefore watch yourselves very carefully. Since you saw no form on the day that the LORD spoke to
you at Horeb out of the midst of the fire,
Deu 4:16 beware lest you act corruptly by making a carved image for yourselves, in the form of any figure, the
likeness of male or female,
Deu 4:17 the likeness of any animal that is on the earth, the likeness of any winged bird that flies in the air,
Deu 4:18 the likeness of anything that creeps on the ground, the likeness of any fish that is in the water under
the earth.
Deu 4:19 And beware lest you raise your eyes to heaven, and when you see the sun and the moon and the
stars, all the host of heaven, you be drawn away and bow down to them and serve them, things that the LORD
your God has allotted to all the peoples under the whole heaven.
Deu 4:20 But the LORD has taken you and brought you out of the iron furnace, out of Egypt, to be a people of
his own inheritance, as you are this day.
Deu 4:21 Furthermore, the LORD was angry with me because of you, and he swore that I should not cross the
Jordan, and that I should not enter the good land that the LORD your God is giving you for an inheritance.
Deu 4:22 For I must die in this land; I must not go over the Jordan. But you shall go over and take possession of
that good land.Deu 4:23 Take care, lest you forget the covenant of the LORD your God, which he made with you, and make a
carved image, the form of anything that the LORD your God has forbidden you.
Deu 4:24 For the LORD your God is a consuming fire, a jealous God.
Deu 4:25 "When you father children and children's children, and have grown old in the land, if you act corruptly
by making a carved image in the form of anything, and by doing what is evil in the sight of the LORD your God,
so as to provoke him to anger,
Deu 4:26 I call heaven and earth to witness against you today, that you will soon utterly perish from the land that
you are going over the Jordan to possess. You will not live long in it, but will be utterly destroyed.
Deu 4:27 And the LORD will scatter you among the peoples, and you will be left few in number among the
nations where the LORD will drive you.
Deu 4:28 And there you will serve gods of wood and stone, the work of human hands, that neither see, nor
hear, nor eat, nor smell.
Deu 4:29 But from there you will seek the LORD your God and you will find him, if you search after him with all
your heart and with all your soul.
Deu 4:30 When you are in tribulation, and all these things come upon you in the latter days, you will return to
the LORD your God and obey his voice.
Deu 4:31 For the LORD your God is a merciful God. He will not leave you or destroy you or forget the covenant
with your fathers that he swore to them.
Deu 4:32 "For ask now of the days that are past, which were before you, since the day that God created man on
the earth, and ask from one end of heaven to the other, whether such a great thing as this has ever happened or
was ever heard of.
Deu 4:33 Did any people ever hear the voice of a god speaking out of the midst of the fire, as you have heard,
and still live?
Deu 4:34 Or has any god ever attempted to go and take a nation for himself from the midst of another nation, by
trials, by signs, by wonders, and by war, by a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and by great deeds of
terror, all of which the LORD your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes?
Deu 4:35 To you it was shown, that you might know that the LORD is God; there is no other besides him.
Deu 4:36 Out of heaven he let you hear his voice, that he might discipline you. And on earth he let you see his
great fire, and you heard his words out of the midst of the fire.
Deu 4:37 And because he loved your fathers and chose their offspring after them and brought you out of Egypt
with his own presence, by his great power,
Deu 4:38 driving out before you nations greater and mightier than yourselves, to bring you in, to give you their
land for an inheritance, as it is this day,
Deu 4:39 know therefore today, and lay it to your heart, that the LORD is God in heaven above and on the earth
beneath; there is no other.
Deu 4:40 Therefore you shall keep his statutes and his commandments, which I command you today, that it
may go well with you and with your children after you, and that you may prolong your days in the land that the
LORD your God is giving you for all time."
Deu 4:41 Then Moses set apart three cities in the east beyond the Jordan,
Deu 4:42 that the manslayer might flee there, anyone who kills his neighbor unintentionally, without being at
enmity with him in time past; he may flee to one of these cities and save his life:
Deu 4:43 Bezer in the wilderness on the tableland for the Reubenites, Ramoth in Gilead for the Gadites, and
Golan in Bashan for the Manassites.
Deu 4:44 This is the law that Moses set before the people of Israel.
Deu 4:45 These are the testimonies, the statutes, and the rules, which Moses spoke to the people of Israel
when they came out of Egypt,
Deu 4:46 beyond the Jordan in the valley opposite Beth-peor, in the land of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who
lived at Heshbon, whom Moses and the people of Israel defeated when they came out of Egypt.
Deu 4:47 And they took possession of his land and the land of Og, the king of Bashan, the two kings of the
Amorites, who lived to the east beyond the Jordan;
Deu 4:48 from Aroer, which is on the edge of the Valley of the Arnon, as far as Mount Sirion (that is, Hermon),
Deu 4:49 together with all the Arabah on the east side of the Jordan as far as the Sea of the Arabah, under the
slopes of Pisgah.
Deu 5:1 And Moses summoned all Israel and said to them, "Hear, O Israel, the statutes and the rules that I
speak in your hearing today, and you shall learn them and be careful to do them.
Deu 5:2 The LORD our God made a covenant with us in Horeb.
Deu 5:3 Not with our fathers did the LORD make this covenant, but with us, who are all of us here alive today.
Deu 5:4 The LORD spoke with you face to face at the mountain, out of the midst of the fire,
Deu 5:5 while I stood between the LORD and you at that time, to declare to you the word of the LORD. For youwere afraid because of the fire, and you did not go up into the mountain. He said:
Deu 5:6 "'I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery.
Deu 5:7 "'You shall have no other gods before me.
Deu 5:8 "'You shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or
that is on the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth.
Deu 5:9 You shall not bow down to them or serve them; for I the LORD your God am a jealous God, visiting the
iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me,
Deu 5:10 but showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.
Deu 5:11 "'You shall not take the name of the LORD your God in vain, for the LORD will not hold him guiltless
who takes his name in vain.
Deu 5:12 "'Observe the Sabbath day, to keep it holy, as the LORD your God commanded you.
Deu 5:13 Six days you shall labor and do all your work,
Deu 5:14 but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the LORD your God. On it you shall not do any work, you or your
son or your daughter or your male servant or your female servant, or your ox or your donkey or any of your
livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates, that your male servant and your female servant may rest as
well as you.
Deu 5:15 You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the LORD your God brought you
out from there with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. Therefore the LORD your God commanded you to
keep the Sabbath day.
Deu 5:16 "'Honor your father and your mother, as the LORD your God commanded you, that your days may be
long, and that it may go well with you in the land that the LORD your God is giving you.
Deu 5:17 "'You shall not murder.
Deu 5:18 "'And you shall not commit adultery.
Deu 5:19 "'And you shall not steal.
Deu 5:20 "'And you shall not bear false witness against your neighbor.
Deu 5:21 "'And you shall not covet your neighbor's wife. And you shall not desire your neighbor's house, his
field, or his male servant, or his female servant, his ox, or his donkey, or anything that is your neighbor's.'
Deu 5:22 "These words the LORD spoke to all your assembly at the mountain out of the midst of the fire, the
cloud, and the thick darkness, with a loud voice; and he added no more. And he wrote them on two tablets of
stone and gave them to me.
Deu 5:23 And as soon as you heard the voice out of the midst of the darkness, while the mountain was burning
with fire, you came near to me, all the heads of your tribes, and your elders.
Deu 5:24 And you said, 'Behold, the LORD our God has shown us his glory and greatness, and we have heard
his voice out of the midst of the fire. This day we have seen God speak with man and man still live.
Deu 5:25 Now therefore why should we die? For this great fire will consume us. If we hear the voice of the
LORD our God any more, we shall die.
Deu 5:26 For who is there of all flesh, that has heard the voice of the living God speaking out of the midst of fire
as we have, and has still lived?
Deu 5:27 Go near and hear all that the LORD our God will say and speak to us all that the LORD our God will
speak to you, and we will hear and do it.'
Deu 5:28 "And the LORD heard your words, when you spoke to me. And the LORD said to me, 'I have heard
the words of this people, which they have spoken to you. They are right in all that they have spoken.
Deu 5:29 Oh that they had such a mind as this always, to fear me and to keep all my commandments, that it
might go well with them and with their descendants forever!
Deu 5:30 Go and say to them, "Return to your tents."
Deu 5:31 But you, stand here by me, and I will tell you the whole commandment and the statutes and the rules
that you shall teach them, that they may do them in the land that I am giving them to possess.'
Deu 5:32 You shall be careful therefore to do as the LORD your God has commanded you. You shall not turn
aside to the right hand or to the left.
Deu 5:33 You shall walk in all the way that the LORD your God has commanded you, that you may live, and
that it may go well with you, and that you may live long in the land that you shall possess.
Deu 6:1 "Now this is the commandment, the statutes and the rules that the LORD your God commanded me to
teach you, that you may do them in the land to which you are going over, to possess it,
Deu 6:2 that you may fear the LORD your God, you and your son and your son's son, by keeping all his statutes
and his commandments, which I command you, all the days of your life, and that your days may be long.
Deu 6:3 Hear therefore, O Israel, and be careful to do them, that it may go well with you, and that you may
multiply greatly, as the LORD, the God of your fathers, has promised you, in a land flowing with milk and honey.
Deu 6:4 "Hear, O Israel: The LORD our God, the LORD is one.
Deu 6:5 You shall love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might.Deu 6:6 And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart.
Deu 6:7 You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and
when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise.
Deu 6:8 You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
Deu 6:9 You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.
Deu 6:10 "And when the LORD your God brings you into the land that he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to
Isaac, and to Jacob, to give you- with great and good cities that you did not build,
Deu 6:11 and houses full of all good things that you did not fill, and cisterns that you did not dig, and vineyards
and olive trees that you did not plant- and when you eat and are full,
Deu 6:12 then take care lest you forget the LORD, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of
slavery.
Deu 6:13 It is the LORD your God you shall fear. Him you shall serve and by his name you shall swear.
Deu 6:14 You shall not go after other gods, the gods of the peoples who are around you,
Deu 6:15 for the LORD your God in your midst is a jealous God, lest the anger of the LORD your God be
kindled against you, and he destroy you from off the face of the earth.
Deu 6:16 "You shall not put the LORD your God to the test, as you tested him at Massah.
Deu 6:17 You shall diligently keep the commandments of the LORD your God, and his testimonies and his
statutes, which he has commanded you.
Deu 6:18 And you shall do what is right and good in the sight of the LORD, that it may go well with you, and that
you may go in and take possession of the good land that the LORD swore to give to your fathers
Deu 6:19 by thrusting out all your enemies from before you, as the LORD has promised.
Deu 6:20 "When your son asks you in time to come, 'What is the meaning of the testimonies and the statutes
and the rules that the LORD our God has commanded you?'
Deu 6:21 then you shall say to your son, 'We were Pharaoh's slaves in Egypt. And the LORD brought us out of
Egypt with a mighty hand.
Deu 6:22 And the LORD showed signs and wonders, great and grievous, against Egypt and against Pharaoh
and all his household, before our eyes.
Deu 6:23 And he brought us out from there, that he might bring us in and give us the land that he swore to give
to our fathers.
Deu 6:24 And the LORD commanded us to do all these statutes, to fear the LORD our God, for our good
always, that he might preserve us alive, as we are this day.
Deu 6:25 And it will be righteousness for us, if we are careful to do all this commandment before the LORD our
God, as he has commanded us.'
Deu 7:1 "When the LORD your God brings you into the land that you are entering to take possession of it, and
clears away many nations before you, the Hittites, the Girgashites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites,
the Hivites, and the Jebusites, seven nations more numerous and mightier than yourselves,
Deu 7:2 and when the LORD your God gives them over to you, and you defeat them, then you must devote
them to complete destruction. You shall make no covenant with them and show no mercy to them.
Deu 7:3 You shall not intermarry with them, giving your daughters to their sons or taking their daughters for your
sons,
Deu 7:4 for they would turn away your sons from following me, to serve other gods. Then the anger of the
LORD would be kindled against you, and he would destroy you quickly.
Deu 7:5 But thus shall you deal with them: you shall break down their altars and dash in pieces their pillars and
chop down their Asherim and burn their carved images with fire.
Deu 7:6 "For you are a people holy to the LORD your God. The LORD your God has chosen you to be a people
for his treasured possession, out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth.
Deu 7:7 It was not because you were more in number than any other people that the LORD set his love on you
and chose you, for you were the fewest of all peoples,
Deu 7:8 but it is because the LORD loves you and is keeping the oath that he swore to your fathers, that the
LORD has brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the hand of
Pharaoh king of Egypt.
Deu 7:9 Know therefore that the LORD your God is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and steadfast
love with those who love him and keep his commandments, to a thousand generations,
Deu 7:10 and repays to their face those who hate him, by destroying them. He will not be slack with one who
hates him. He will repay him to his face.
Deu 7:11 You shall therefore be careful to do the commandment and the statutes and the rules that I command
you today.
Deu 7:12 "And because you listen to these rules and keep and do them, the LORD your God will keep with you
the covenant and the steadfast love that he swore to your fathers.Deu 7:13 He will love you, bless you, and multiply you. He will also bless the fruit of your womb and the fruit of
your ground, your grain and your wine and your oil, the increase of your herds and the young of your flock, in the
land that he swore to your fathers to give you.
Deu 7:14 You shall be blessed above all peoples. There shall not be male or female barren among you or
among your livestock.
Deu 7:15 And the LORD will take away from you all sickness, and none of the evil diseases of Egypt, which you
knew, will he inflict on you, but he will lay them on all who hate you.
Deu 7:16 And you shall consume all the peoples that the LORD your God will give over to you. Your eye shall
not pity them, neither shall you serve their gods, for that would be a snare to you.
Deu 7:17 "If you say in your heart, 'These nations are greater than I. How can I dispossess them?'
Deu 7:18 you shall not be afraid of them but you shall remember what the LORD your God did to Pharaoh and
to all Egypt,
Deu 7:19 the great trials that your eyes saw, the signs, the wonders, the mighty hand, and the outstretched arm,
by which the LORD your God brought you out. So will the LORD your God do to all the peoples of whom you are
afraid.
Deu 7:20 Moreover, the LORD your God will send hornets among them, until those who are left and hide
themselves from you are destroyed.
Deu 7:21 You shall not be in dread of them, for the LORD your God is in your midst, a great and awesome God.
Deu 7:22 The LORD your God will clear away these nations before you little by little. You may not make an end
of them at once, lest the wild beasts grow too numerous for you.
Deu 7:23 But the LORD your God will give them over to you and throw them into great confusion, until they are
destroyed.
Deu 7:24 And he will give their kings into your hand, and you shall make their name perish from under heaven.
No one shall be able to stand against you until you have destroyed them.
Deu 7:25 The carved images of their gods you shall burn with fire. You shall not covet the silver or the gold that
is on them or take it for yourselves, lest you be ensnared by it, for it is an abomination to the LORD your God.
Deu 7:26 And you shall not bring an abominable thing into your house and become devoted to destruction like
it. You shall utterly detest and abhor it, for it is devoted to destruction.
Deu 8:1 "The whole commandment that I command you today you shall be careful to do, that you may live and
multiply, and go in and possess the land that the LORD swore to give to your fathers.
Deu 8:2 And you shall remember the whole way that the LORD your God has led you these forty years in the
wilderness, that he might humble you, testing you to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his
commandments or not.
Deu 8:3 And he humbled you and let you hunger and fed you with manna, which you did not know, nor did your
fathers know, that he might make you know that man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word
that comes from the mouth of the LORD.
Deu 8:4 Your clothing did not wear out on you and your foot did not swell these forty years.
Deu 8:5 Know then in your heart that, as a man disciplines his son, the LORD your God disciplines you.
Deu 8:6 So you shall keep the commandments of the LORD your God by walking in his ways and by fearing
him.
Deu 8:7 For the LORD your God is bringing you into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains and
springs, flowing out in the valleys and hills,
Deu 8:8 a land of wheat and barley, of vines and fig trees and pomegranates, a land of olive trees and honey,
Deu 8:9 a land in which you will eat bread without scarcity, in which you will lack nothing, a land whose stones
are iron, and out of whose hills you can dig copper.
Deu 8:10 And you shall eat and be full, and you shall bless the LORD your God for the good land he has given
you.
Deu 8:11 "Take care lest you forget the LORD your God by not keeping his commandments and his rules and
his statutes, which I command you today,
Deu 8:12 lest, when you have eaten and are full and have built good houses and live in them,
Deu 8:13 and when your herds and flocks multiply and your silver and gold is multiplied and all that you have is
multiplied,
Deu 8:14 then your heart be lifted up, and you forget the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of
Egypt, out of the house of slavery,
Deu 8:15 who led you through the great and terrifying wilderness, with its fiery serpents and scorpions and
thirsty ground where there was no water, who brought you water out of the flinty rock,
Deu 8:16 who fed you in the wilderness with manna that your fathers did not know, that he might humble you
and test you, to do you good in the end.
Deu 8:17 Beware lest you say in your heart, 'My power and the might of my hand have gotten me this wealth.'Deu 8:18 You shall remember the LORD your God, for it is he who gives you power to get wealth, that he may
confirm his covenant that he swore to your fathers, as it is this day.
Deu 8:19 And if you forget the LORD your God and go after other gods and serve them and worship them, I
solemnly warn you today that you shall surely perish.
Deu 8:20 Like the nations that the LORD makes to perish before you, so shall you perish, because you would
not obey the voice of the LORD your God.
Deu 9:1 "Hear, O Israel: you are to cross over the Jordan today, to go in to dispossess nations greater and
mightier than yourselves, cities great and fortified up to heaven,
Deu 9:2 a people great and tall, the sons of the Anakim, whom you know, and of whom you have heard it said,
'Who can stand before the sons of Anak?'
Deu 9:3 Know therefore today that he who goes over before you as a consuming fire is the LORD your God. He
will destroy them and subdue them before you. So you shall drive them out and make them perish quickly, as the
LORD has promised you.
Deu 9:4 "Do not say in your heart, after the LORD your God has thrust them out before you, 'It is because of my
righ teousness that the LORD has brought me in to possess this land,' whereas it is because of the wickedness
of these nations that the LORD is driving them out before you.
Deu 9:5 Not because of your righteousness or the uprightness of your heart are you going in to possess their
land, but because of the wickedness of these nations the LORD your God is driving them out from before you,
and that he may confirm the word that the LORD swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
Deu 9:6 "Know, therefore, that the LORD your God is not giving you this good land to possess because of your
righ teousness, for you are a stubborn people.
Deu 9:7 Remember and do not forget how you provoked the LORD your God to wrath in the wilderness. From
the day you came out of the land of Egypt until you came to this place, you have been rebellious against the
LORD.
Deu 9:8 Even at Horeb you provoked the LORD to wrath, and the LORD was so angry with you that he was
ready to destroy you.
Deu 9:9 When I went up the mountain to receive the tablets of stone, the tablets of the covenant that the LORD
made with you, I remained on the mountain forty days and forty nights. I neither ate bread nor drank water.
Deu 9:10 And the LORD gave me the two tablets of stone written with the finger of God, and on them were all
the words that the LORD had spoken with you on the mountain out of the midst of the fire on the day of the
assembly.
Deu 9:11 And at the end of forty days and forty nights the LORD gave me the two tablets of stone, the tablets of
the covenant.
Deu 9:12 Then the LORD said to me, 'Arise, go down quickly from here, for your people whom you have
brought from Egypt have acted corruptly. They have turned aside quickly out of the way that I commanded them;
they have made themselves a metal image.'
Deu 9:13 "Furthermore, the LORD said to me, 'I have seen this people, and behold, it is a stubborn people.
Deu 9:14 Let me alone, that I may destroy them and blot out their name from under heaven. And I will make of
you a nation mightier and greater than they.'
Deu 9:15 So I turned and came down from the mountain, and the mountain was burning with fire. And the two
tablets of the covenant were in my two hands.
Deu 9:16 And I looked, and behold, you had sinned against the LORD your God. You had made yourselves a
golden calf. You had turned aside quickly from the way that the LORD had commanded you.
Deu 9:17 So I took hold of the two tablets and threw them out of my two hands and broke them before your
eyes.
Deu 9:18 Then I lay prostrate before the LORD as before, forty days and forty nights. I neither ate bread nor
drank water, because of all the sin that you had committed, in doing what was evil in the sight of the LORD to
provoke him to anger.
Deu 9:19 For I was afraid of the anger and hot displeasure that the LORD bore against you, so that he was
ready to destroy you. But the LORD listened to me that time also.
Deu 9:20 And the LORD was so angry with Aaron that he was ready to destroy him. And I prayed for Aaron also
at the same time.
Deu 9:21 Then I took the sinful thing, the calf that you had made, and burned it with fire and crushed it, grinding
it very small, until it was as fine as dust. And I threw the dust of it into the brook that ran down from the mountain.
Deu 9:22 "At Taberah also, and at Massah and at Kibroth-hattaavah you provoked the LORD to wrath.
Deu 9:23 And when the LORD sent you from Kadesh-barnea, saying, 'Go up and take possession of the land
that I have given you,' then you rebelled against the commandment of the LORD your God and did not believe
him or obey his voice.
Deu 9:24 You have been rebellious against the LORD from the day that I knew you.Deu 9:25 "So I lay prostrate before the LORD for these forty days and forty nights, because the LORD had said
he would destroy you.
Deu 9:26 And I prayed to the LORD, 'O Lord GOD, destroy not your people and your heritage, whom you have
redeemed through your greatness, whom you have brought out of Egypt with a mighty hand.
Deu 9:27 Remember your servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Do not regard the stubbornness of this people,
or their wickedness or their sin,
Deu 9:28 lest the land from which you brought us say, "Because the LORD was not able to bring them into the
land that he promised them, and because he hated them, he has brought them out to put them to death in the
wilderness."
Deu 9:29 For they are your people and your heritage, whom you brought out by your great power and by your
outstretched arm.'
Deu 10:1 "At that time the LORD said to me, 'Cut for yourself two tablets of stone like the first, and come up to
me on the mountain and make an ark of wood.
Deu 10:2 And I will write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets that you broke, and you shall put
them in the ark.'
Deu 10:3 So I made an ark of acacia wood, and cut two tablets of stone like the first, and went up the mountain
with the two tablets in my hand.
Deu 10:4 And he wrote on the tablets, in the same writing as before, the ten commandments that the LORD had
spoken to you on the mountain out of the midst of the fire on the day of the assembly. And the LORD gave them
to me.
Deu 10:5 Then I turned and came down from the mountain and put the tablets in the ark that I had made. And
there they are, as the LORD commanded me."
Deu 10:6 (The people of Israel journeyed from Beeroth Bene-jaakan to Moserah. There Aaron died, and there
he was buried. And his son Eleazar ministered as priest in his place.
Deu 10:7 From there they journeyed to Gudgodah, and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land with brooks of
water.
Deu 10:8 At that time the LORD set apart the tribe of Levi to carry the ark of the covenant of the LORD to stand
before the LORD to minister to him and to bless in his name, to this day.
Deu 10:9 Therefore Levi has no portion or inheritance with his brothers. The LORD is his inheritance, as the
LORD your God said to him.)
Deu 10:10 "I myself stayed on the mountain, as at the first time, forty days and forty nights, and the LORD
listened to me that time also. The LORD was unwilling to destroy you.
Deu 10:11 And the LORD said to me, 'Arise, go on your journey at the head of the people, so that they may go
in and possess the land, which I swore to their fathers to give them.'
Deu 10:12 "And now, Israel, what does the LORD your God require of you, but to fear the LORD your God, to
walk in all his ways, to love him, to serve the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul,
Deu 10:13 and to keep the commandments and statutes of the LORD, which I am commanding you today for
your good?
Deu 10:14 Behold, to the LORD your God belong heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth with all that is in
it.
Deu 10:15 Yet the LORD set his heart in love on your fathers and chose their offspring after them, you above all
peoples, as you are this day.
Deu 10:16 Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, and be no longer stubborn.
Deu 10:17 For the LORD your God is God of gods and Lord of lords, the great, the mighty, and the awesome
God, who is not partial and takes no bribe.
Deu 10:18 He executes justice for the fatherless and the widow, and loves the sojourner, giving him food and
clothing.
Deu 10:19 Love the sojourner, therefore, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt.
Deu 10:20 You shall fear the LORD your God. You shall serve him and hold fast to him, and by his name you
shall swear.
Deu 10:21 He is your praise. He is your God, who has done for you these great and terrifying things that your
eyes have seen.
Deu 10:22 Your fathers went down to Egypt seventy persons, and now the LORD your God has made you as
numerous as the stars of heaven.
Deu 11:1 "You shall therefore love the LORD your God and keep his charge, his statutes, his rules, and his
commandments always.
Deu 11:2 And consider today (since I am not speaking to your children who have not known or seen it), consider
the discipline of the LORD your God, his greatness, his mighty hand and his outstretched arm,
Deu 11:3 his signs and his deeds that he did in Egypt to Pharaoh the king of Egypt and to all his land,Deu 11:4 and what he did to the army of Egypt, to their horses and to their chariots, how he made the water of
the Red Sea flow over them as they pursued after you, and how the LORD has destroyed them to this day,
Deu 11:5 and what he did to you in the wilderness, until you came to this place,
Deu 11:6 and what he did to Dathan and Abiram the sons of Eliab, son of Reuben, how the earth opened its
mouth and swallowed them up, with their households, their tents, and every living thing that followed them, in the
midst of all Israel.
Deu 11:7 For your eyes have seen all the great work of the LORD that he did.
Deu 11:8 "You shall therefore keep the whole commandment that I command you today, that you may be
strong, and go in and take possession of the land that you are going over to possess,
Deu 11:9 and that you may live long in the land that the LORD swore to your fathers to give to them and to their
offspring, a land flowing with milk and honey.
Deu 11:10 For the land that you are entering to take possession of it is not like the land of Egypt, from which
you have come, where you sowed your seed and irrigated it, like a garden of vegetables.
Deu 11:11 But the land that you are going over to possess is a land of hills and valleys, which drinks water by
the rain from heaven,
Deu 11:12 a land that the LORD your God cares for. The eyes of the LORD your God are always upon it, from
the beginning of the year to the end of the year.
Deu 11:13 "And if you will indeed obey my commandments that I command you today, to love the LORD your
God, and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul,
Deu 11:14 he will give the rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the later rain, that you may gather
in your grain and your wine and your oil.
Deu 11:15 And he will give grass in your fields for your livestock, and you shall eat and be full.
Deu 11:16 Take care lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other gods and worship them;
Deu 11:17 then the anger of the LORD will be kindled against you, and he will shut up the heavens, so that
there will be no rain, and the land will yield no fruit, and you will perish quickly off the good land that the LORD is
giving you.
Deu 11:18 "You shall therefore lay up these words of mine in your heart and in your soul, and you shall bind
them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
Deu 11:19 You shall teach them to your children, talking of them when you are sitting in your house, and when
you are walking by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise.
Deu 11:20 You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates,
Deu 11:21 that your days and the days of your children may be multiplied in the land that the LORD swore to
your fathers to give them, as long as the heavens are above the earth.
Deu 11:22 For if you will be careful to do all this commandment that I command you to do, loving the LORD your
God, walking in all his ways, and holding fast to him,
Deu 11:23 then the LORD will drive out all these nations before you, and you will dispossess nations greater
and mightier than yourselves.
Deu 11:24 Every place on which the sole of your foot treads shall be yours. Your territory shall be from the
wilderness to the Lebanon and from the River, the river Euphrates, to the western sea.
Deu 11:25 No one shall be able to stand against you. The LORD your God will lay the fear of you and the dread
of you on all the land that you shall tread, as he promised you.
Deu 11:26 "See, I am setting before you today a blessing and a curse:
Deu 11:27 the blessing, if you obey the commandments of the LORD your God, which I command you today,
Deu 11:28 and the curse, if you do not obey the commandments of the LORD your God, but turn aside from the
way that I am commanding you today, to go after other gods that you have not known.
Deu 11:29 And when the LORD your God brings you into the land that you are entering to take possession of it,
you shall set the blessing on Mount Gerizim and the curse on Mount Ebal.
Deu 11:30 Are they not beyond the Jordan, west of the road, toward the going down of the sun, in the land of
the Canaanites who live in the Arabah, opposite Gilgal, beside the oak of Moreh?
Deu 11:31 For you are to cross over the Jordan to go in to take possession of the land that the LORD your God
is giving you. And when you possess it and live in it,
Deu 11:32 you shall be careful to do all the statutes and the rules that I am setting before you today.
Deu 12:1 "These are the statutes and rules that you shall be careful to do in the land that the LORD, the God of
your fathers, has given you to possess, all the days that you live on the earth.
Deu 12:2 You shall surely destroy all the places where the nations whom you shall dispossess served their
gods, on the high mountains and on the hills and under every green tree.
Deu 12:3 You shall tear down their altars and dash in pieces their pillars and burn their Asherim with fire. You
shall chop down the carved images of their gods and destroy their name out of that place.
Deu 12:4 You shall not worship the LORD your God in that way.Deu 12:5 But you shall seek the place that the LORD your God will choose out of all your tribes to put his name
and make his habitation there. There you shall go,
Deu 12:6 and there you shall bring your burnt offerings and your sacrifices, your tithes and the contribution that
you present, your vow offerings, your freewill offerings, and the firstborn of your herd and of your flock.
Deu 12:7 And there you shall eat before the LORD your God, and you shall rejoice, you and your households, in
all that you undertake, in which the LORD your God has blessed you.
Deu 12:8 "You shall not do according to all that we are doing here today, everyone doing whatever is right in his
own eyes,
Deu 12:9 for you have not as yet come to the rest and to the inheritance that the LORD your God is giving you.
Deu 12:10 But when you go over the Jordan and live in the land that the LORD your God is giving you to inherit,
and when he gives you rest from all your enemies around, so that you live in safety,
Deu 12:11 then to the place that the LORD your God will choose, to make his name dwell there, there you shall
bring all that I command you: your burnt offerings and your sacrifices, your tithes and the contribution that you
present, and all your finest vow offerings that you vow to the LORD.
Deu 12:12 And you shall rejoice before the LORD your God, you and your sons and your daughters, your male
servants and your female servants, and the Levite that is within your towns, since he has no portion or
inheritance with you.
Deu 12:13 Take care that you do not offer your burnt offerings at any place that you see,
Deu 12:14 but at the place that the LORD will choose in one of your tribes, there you shall offer your burnt
offerings, and there you shall do all that I am commanding you.
Deu 12:15 "However, you may slaughter and eat meat within any of your towns, as much as you desire,
according to the blessing of the LORD your God that he has given you. The unclean and the clean may eat of it,
as of the gazelle and as of the deer.
Deu 12:16 Only you shall not eat the blood; you shall pour it out on the earth like water.
Deu 12:17 You may not eat within your towns the tithe of your grain or of your wine or of your oil, or the firstborn
of your herd or of your flock, or any of your vow offerings that you vow, or your freewill offerings or the
contribution that you present,
Deu 12:18 but you shall eat them before the LORD your God in the place that the LORD your God will choose,
you and your son and your daughter, your male servant and your female servant, and the Levite who is within
your towns. And you shall rejoice before the LORD your God in all that you undertake.
Deu 12:19 Take care that you do not neglect the Levite as long as you live in your land.
Deu 12:20 "When the LORD your God enlarges your territory, as he has promised you, and you say, 'I will eat
meat,' because you crave meat, you may eat meat whenever you desire.
Deu 12:21 If the place that the LORD your God will choose to put his name there is too far from you, then you
may kill any of your herd or your flock, which the LORD has given you, as I have commanded you, and you may
eat within your towns whenever you desire.
Deu 12:22 Just as the gazelle or the deer is eaten, so you may eat of it. The unclean and the clean alike may
eat of it.
Deu 12:23 Only be sure that you do not eat the blood, for the blood is the life, and you shall not eat the life with
the flesh.
Deu 12:24 You shall not eat it; you shall pour it out on the earth like water.
Deu 12:25 You shall not eat it, that all may go well with you and with your children after you, when you do what
is right in the sight of the LORD.
Deu 12:26 But the holy things that are due from you, and your vow offerings, you shall take, and you shall go to
the place that the LORD will choose,
Deu 12:27 and offer your burnt offerings, the flesh and the blood, on the altar of the LORD your God. The blood
of your sacrifices shall be poured out on the altar of the LORD your God, but the flesh you may eat.
Deu 12:28 Be careful to obey all these words that I command you, that it may go well with you and with your
children after you forever, when you do what is good and right in the sight of the LORD your God.
Deu 12:29 "When the LORD your God cuts off before you the nations whom you go in to dispossess, and you
dispossess them and dwell in their land,
Deu 12:30 take care that you be not ensnared to follow them, after they have been destroyed before you, and
that you do not inquire about their gods, saying, 'How did these nations serve their gods?- that I also may do the
same.'
Deu 12:31 You shall not worship the LORD your God in that way, for every abominable thing that the LORD
hates they have done for their gods, for they even burn their sons and their daughters in the fire to their gods.
Deu 12:32 "Everything that I command you, you shall be careful to do. You shall not add to it or take from it.
Deu 13:1 "If a prophet or a dreamer of dreams arises among you and gives you a sign or a wonder,
Deu 13:2 and the sign or wonder that he tells you comes to pass, and if he says, 'Let us go after other gods,'which you have not known, 'and let us serve them,'
Deu 13:3 you shall not listen to the words of that prophet or that dreamer of dreams. For the LORD your God is
testing you, to know whether you love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul.
Deu 13:4 You shall walk after the LORD your God and fear him and keep his commandments and obey his
voice, and you shall serve him and hold fast to him.
Deu 13:5 But that prophet or that dreamer of dreams shall be put to death, because he has taught rebellion
against the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt and redeemed you out of the house of
slavery, to make you leave the way in which the LORD your God commanded you to walk. So you shall purge
the evil from your midst.
Deu 13:6 "If your brother, the son of your mother, or your son or your daughter or the wife you embrace or your
friend who is as your own soul entices you secretly, saying, 'Let us go and serve other gods,' which neither you
nor your fathers have known,
Deu 13:7 some of the gods of the peoples who are around you, whether near you or far off from you, from the
one end of the earth to the other,
Deu 13:8 you shall not yield to him or listen to him, nor shall your eye pity him, nor shall you spare him, nor shall
you conceal him.
Deu 13:9 But you shall kill him. Your hand shall be first against him to put him to death, and afterward the hand
of all the people.
Deu 13:10 You shall stone him to death with stones, because he sought to draw you away from the LORD your
God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery.
Deu 13:11 And all Israel shall hear and fear and never again do any such wickedness as this among you.
Deu 13:12 "If you hear in one of your cities, which the LORD your God is giving you to dwell there,
Deu 13:13 that certain worthless fellows have gone out among you and have drawn away the inhabitants of
their city, saying, 'Let us go and serve other gods,' which you have not known,
Deu 13:14 then you shall inquire and make search and ask diligently. And behold, if it be true and certain that
such an abomination has been done among you,
Deu 13:15 you shall surely put the inhabitants of that city to the sword, devoting it to destruction, all who are in it
and its cattle, with the edge of the sword.
Deu 13:16 You shall gather all its spoil into the midst of its open square and burn the city and all its spoil with
fire, as a whole burnt offering to the LORD your God. It shall be a heap forever. It shall not be built again.
Deu 13:17 None of the devoted things shall stick to your hand, that the LORD may turn from the fierceness of
his anger and show you mercy and have compassion on you and multiply you, as he swore to your fathers,
Deu 13:18 if you obey the voice of the LORD your God, keeping all his commandments that I am commanding
you today, and doing what is right in the sight of the LORD your God.
Deu 14:1 "You are the sons of the LORD your God. You shall not cut yourselves or make any baldness on your
foreheads for the dead.
Deu 14:2 For you are a people holy to the LORD your God, and the LORD has chosen you to be a people for
his treasured possession, out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth.
Deu 14:3 "You shall not eat any abomination.
Deu 14:4 These are the animals you may eat: the ox, the sheep, the goat,
Deu 14:5 the deer, the gazelle, the roebuck, the wild goat, the ibex, the antelope, and the mountain sheep.
Deu 14:6 Every animal that parts the hoof and has the hoof cloven in two and chews the cud, among the
animals, you may eat.
Deu 14:7 Yet of those that chew the cud or have the hoof cloven you shall not eat these: the camel, the hare,
and the rock badger, because they chew the cud but do not part the hoof, are unclean for you.
Deu 14:8 And the pig, because it parts the hoof but does not chew the cud, is unclean for you. Their flesh you
shall not eat, and their carcasses you shall not touch.
Deu 14:9 "Of all that are in the waters you may eat these: whatever has fins and scales you may eat.
Deu 14:10 And whatever does not have fins and scales you shall not eat; it is unclean for you.
Deu 14:11 "You may eat all clean birds.
Deu 14:12 But these are the ones that you shall not eat: the eagle, the bearded vulture, the black vulture,
Deu 14:13 the kite, the falcon of any kind;
Deu 14:14 every raven of any kind;
Deu 14:15 the ostrich, the nighthawk, the sea gull, the hawk of any kind;
Deu 14:16 the little owl and the short-eared owl, the barn owl
Deu 14:17 and the tawny owl, the carrion vulture and the cormorant,
Deu 14:18 the stork, the heron of any kind; the hoopoe and the bat.
Deu 14:19 And all winged insects are unclean for you; they shall not be eaten.
Deu 14:20 All clean winged things you may eat.Deu 14:21 "You shall not eat anything that has died naturally. You may give it to the sojourner who is within
your towns, that he may eat it, or you may sell it to a foreigner. For you are a people holy to the LORD your God.
"You shall not boil a young goat in its mother's milk.
Deu 14:22 "You shall tithe all the yield of your seed that comes from the field year by year.
Deu 14:23 And before the LORD your God, in the place that he will choose, to make his name dwell there, you
shall eat the tithe of your grain, of your wine, and of your oil, and the firstborn of your herd and flock, that you
may learn to fear the LORD your God always.
Deu 14:24 And if the way is too long for you, so that you are not able to carry the tithe, when the LORD your
God blesses you, because the place is too far from you, which the LORD your God chooses, to set his name
there,
Deu 14:25 then you shall turn it into money and bind up the money in your hand and go to the place that the
LORD your God chooses
Deu 14:26 and spend the money for whatever you desire- oxen or sheep or wine or strong drink, whatever your
appetite craves. And you shall eat there before the LORD your God and rejoice, you and your household.
Deu 14:27 And you shall not neglect the Levite who is within your towns, for he has no portion or inheritance
with you.
Deu 14:28 "At the end of every three years you shall bring out all the tithe of your produce in the same year and
lay it up within your towns.
Deu 14:29 And the Levite, because he has no portion or inheritance with you, and the sojourner, the fatherless,
and the widow, who are within your towns, shall come and eat and be filled, that the LORD your God may bless
you in all the work of your hands that you do.
Deu 15:1 "At the end of every seven years you shall grant a release.
Deu 15:2 And this is the manner of the release: every creditor shall release what he has lent to his neighbor. He
shall not exact it of his neighbor, his brother, because the LORD'S release has been proclaimed.
Deu 15:3 Of a foreigner you may exact it, but whatever of yours is with your brother your hand shall release.
Deu 15:4 But there will be no poor among you; for the LORD will bless you in the land that the LORD your God
is giving you for an inheritance to possessDeu 15:5 if only you will strictly obey the voice of the LORD your God, being careful to do all this commandment
that I command you today.
Deu 15:6 For the LORD your God will bless you, as he promised you, and you shall lend to many nations, but
you shall not borrow, and you shall rule over many nations, but they shall not rule over you.
Deu 15:7 "If among you, one of your brothers should become poor, in any of your towns within your land that
the LORD your God is giving you, you shall not harden your heart or shut your hand against your poor brother,
Deu 15:8 but you shall open your hand to him and lend him sufficient for his need, whatever it may be.
Deu 15:9 Take care lest there be an unworthy thought in your heart and you say, 'The seventh year, the year of
release is near,' and your eye look grudgingly on your poor brother, and you give him nothing, and he cry to the
LORD against you, and you be guilty of sin.
Deu 15:10 You shall give to him freely, and your heart shall not be grudging when you give to him, because for
this the LORD your God will bless you in all your work and in all that you undertake.
Deu 15:11 For there will never cease to be poor in the land. Therefore I command you, 'You shall open wide
your hand to your brother, to the needy and to the poor, in your land.'
Deu 15:12 "If your brother, a Hebrew man or a Hebrew woman, is sold to you, he shall serve you six years, and
in the seventh year you shall let him go free from you.
Deu 15:13 And when you let him go free from you, you shall not let him go empty-handed.
Deu 15:14 You shall furnish him liberally out of your flock, out of your threshing floor, and out of your winepress.
As the LORD your God has blessed you, you shall give to him.
Deu 15:15 You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the LORD your God redeemed
you; therefore I command you this today.
Deu 15:16 But if he says to you, 'I will not go out from you,' because he loves you and your household, since he
is well-off with you,
Deu 15:17 then you shall take an awl, and put it through his ear into the door, and he shall be your slave
forever. And to your female slave you shall do the same.
Deu 15:18 It shall not seem hard to you when you let him go free from you, for at half the cost of a hired servant
he has served you six years. So the LORD your God will bless you in all that you do.
Deu 15:19 "All the firstborn males that are born of your herd and flock you shall dedicate to the LORD your God.
You shall do no work with the firstborn of your herd, nor shear the firstborn of your flock.
Deu 15:20 You shall eat it, you and your household, before the LORD your God year by year at the place that
the LORD will choose.
Deu 15:21 But if it has any blemish, if it is lame or blind or has any serious blemish whatever, you shall notsacrifice it to the LORD your God.
Deu 15:22 You shall eat it within your towns. The unclean and the clean alike may eat it, as though it were a
gazelle or a deer.
Deu 15:23 Only you shall not eat its blood; you shall pour it out on the ground like water.
Deu 16:1 "Observe the month of Abib and keep the Passover to the LORD your God, for in the month of Abib
the LORD your God brought you out of Egypt by night.
Deu 16:2 And you shall offer the Passover sacrifice to the LORD your God, from the flock or the herd, at the
place that the LORD will choose, to make his name dwell there.
Deu 16:3 You shall eat no leavened bread with it. Seven days you shall eat it with unleavened bread, the bread
of affliction- for you came out of the land of Egypt in haste- that all the days of your life you may remember the
day when you came out of the land of Egypt.
Deu 16:4 No leaven shall be seen with you in all your territory for seven days, nor shall any of the flesh that you
sacrifice on the evening of the first day remain all night until morning.
Deu 16:5 You may not offer the Passover sacrifice within any of your towns that the LORD your God is giving
you,
Deu 16:6 but at the place that the LORD your God will choose, to make his name dwell in it, there you shall offer
the Passover sacrifice, in the evening at sunset, at the time you came out of Egypt.
Deu 16:7 And you shall cook it and eat it at the place that the LORD your God will choose. And in the morning
you shall turn and go to your tents.
Deu 16:8 For six days you shall eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day there shall be a solemn
assembly to the LORD your God. You shall do no work on it.
Deu 16:9 "You shall count seven weeks. Begin to count the seven weeks from the time the sickle is first put to
the standing grain.
Deu 16:10 Then you shall keep the Feast of Weeks to the LORD your God with the tribute of a freewill offering
from your hand, which you shall give as the LORD your God blesses you.
Deu 16:11 And you shall rejoice before the LORD your God, you and your son and your daughter, your male
servant and your female servant, the Levite who is within your towns, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the
widow who are among you, at the place that the LORD your God will choose, to make his name dwell there.
Deu 16:12 You shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt; and you shall be careful to observe these
statutes.
Deu 16:13 "You shall keep the Feast of Booths seven days, when you have gathered in the produce from your
threshing floor and your winepress.
Deu 16:14 You shall rejoice in your feast, you and your son and your daughter, your male servant and your
female servant, the Levite, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow who are within your towns.
Deu 16:15 For seven days you shall keep the feast to the LORD your God at the place that the LORD will
choose, because the LORD your God will bless you in all your produce and in all the work of your hands, so that
you will be altogether joyful.
Deu 16:16 "Three times a year all your males shall appear before the LORD your God at the place that he will
choose: at the Feast of Unleavened Bread, at the Feast of Weeks, and at the Feast of Booths. They shall not
appear before the LORD empty-handed.
Deu 16:17 Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of the LORD your God that he has
given you.
Deu 16:18 "You shall appoint judges and officers in all your towns that the LORD your God is giving you,
according to your tribes, and they shall judge the people with righteous judgment.
Deu 16:19 You shall not pervert justice. You shall not show partiality, and you shall not accept a bribe, for a
bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and subverts the cause of the righteous.
Deu 16:20 Justice, and only justice, you shall follow, that you may live and inherit the land that the LORD your
God is giving you.
Deu 16:21 "You shall not plant any tree as an Asherah beside the altar of the LORD your God that you shall
make.
Deu 16:22 And you shall not set up a pillar, which the LORD your God hates.
Deu 17:1 "You shall not sacrifice to the LORD your God an ox or a sheep in which is a blemish, any defect
whatever, for that is an abomination to the LORD your God.
Deu 17:2 "If there is found among you, within any of your towns that the LORD your God is giving you, a man or
woman who does what is evil in the sight of the LORD your God, in transgressing his covenant,
Deu 17:3 and has gone and served other gods and worshiped them, or the sun or the moon or any of the host
of heaven, which I have forbidden,
Deu 17:4 and it is told you and you hear of it, then you shall inquire diligently, and if it is true and certain that
such an abomination has been done in Israel,Deu 17:5 then you shall bring out to your gates that man or woman who has done this evil thing, and you shall
stone that man or woman to death with stones.
Deu 17:6 On the evidence of two witnesses or of three witnesses the one who is to die shall be put to death; a
person shall not be put to death on the evidence of one witness.
Deu 17:7 The hand of the witnesses shall be first against him to put him to death, and afterward the hand of all
the people. So you shall purge the evil from your midst.
Deu 17:8 "If any case arises requiring decision between one kind of homicide and another, one kind of legal
right and another, or one kind of assault and another, any case within your towns that is too difficult for you, then
you shall arise and go up to the place that the LORD your God will choose.
Deu 17:9 And you shall come to the Levitical priests and to the judge who is in office in those days, and you
shall consult them, and they shall declare to you the decision.
Deu 17:10 Then you shall do according to what they declare to you from that place that the LORD will choose.
And you shall be careful to do according to all that they direct you.
Deu 17:11 According to the instructions that they give you, and according to the decision which they pronounce
to you, you shall do. You shall not turn aside from the verdict that they declare to you, either to the right hand or
to the left.
Deu 17:12 The man who acts presumptuously by not obeying the priest who stands to minister there before the
LORD your God, or the judge, that man shall die. So you shall purge the evil from Israel.
Deu 17:13 And all the people shall hear and fear and not act presumptuously again.
Deu 17:14 "When you come to the land that the LORD your God is giving you, and you possess it and dwell in it
and then say, 'I will set a king over me, like all the nations that are around me,'
Deu 17:15 you may indeed set a king over you whom the LORD your God will choose. One from among your
brothers you shall set as king over you. You may not put a foreigner over you, who is not your brother.
Deu 17:16 Only he must not acquire many horses for himself or cause the people to return to Egypt in order to
acquire many horses, since the LORD has said to you, 'You shall never return that way again.'
Deu 17:17 And he shall not acquire many wives for himself, lest his heart turn away, nor shall he acquire for
himself excessive silver and gold.
Deu 17:18 "And when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, he shall write for himself in a book a copy of this
law, approved by the Levitical priests.
Deu 17:19 And it shall be with him, and he shall read in it all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear the
LORD his God by keeping all the words of this law and these statutes, and doing them,
Deu 17:20 that his heart may not be lifted up above his brothers, and that he may not turn aside from the
commandment, either to the right hand or to the left, so that he may continue long in his kingdom, he and his
children, in Israel.
Deu 18:1 "The Levitical priests, all the tribe of Levi, shall have no portion or inheritance with Israel. They shall
eat the LORD's food offerings as their inheritance.
Deu 18:2 They shall have no inheritance among their brothers; the LORD is their inheritance, as he promised
them.
Deu 18:3 And this shall be the priests' due from the people, from those offering a sacrifice, whether an ox or a
sheep: they shall give to the priest the shoulder and the two cheeks and the stomach.
Deu 18:4 The firstfruits of your grain, of your wine and of your oil, and the first fleece of your sheep, you shall
give him.
Deu 18:5 For the LORD your God has chosen him out of all your tribes to stand and minister in the name of the
LORD, him and his sons for all time.
Deu 18:6 "And if a Levite comes from any of your towns out of all Israel, where he lives- and he may come
when he desires- to the place that the LORD will choose,
Deu 18:7 and ministers in the name of the LORD his God, like all his fellow Levites who stand to minister there
before the LORD,
Deu 18:8 then he may have equal portions to eat, besides what he receives from the sale of his patrimony.
Deu 18:9 "When you come into the land that the LORD your God is giving you, you shall not learn to follow the
abominable practices of those nations.
Deu 18:10 There shall not be found among you anyone who burns his son or his daughter as an offering,
anyone who practices divination or tells fortunes or interprets omens, or a sorcerer
Deu 18:11 or a charmer or a medium or a wizard or a necromancer,
Deu 18:12 for whoever does these things is an abomination to the LORD. And because of these abominations
the LORD your God is driving them out before you.
Deu 18:13 You shall be blameless before the LORD your God,
Deu 18:14 for these nations, which you are about to dispossess, listen to fortune-tellers and to diviners. But as
for you, the LORD your God has not allowed you to do this.Deu 18:15 "The LORD your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your brothers- it is
to him you shall listenDeu 18:16 just as you desired of the LORD your God at Horeb on the day of the assembly, when you said, 'Let
me not hear again the voice of the LORD my God or see this great fire any more, lest I die.'
Deu 18:17 And the LORD said to me, 'They are right in what they have spoken.
Deu 18:18 I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers. And I will put my words in his
mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him.
Deu 18:19 And whoever will not listen to my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him.
Deu 18:20 But the prophet who presumes to speak a word in my name that I have not commanded him to
speak, or who speaks in the name of other gods, that same prophet shall die.'
Deu 18:21 And if you say in your heart, 'How may we know the word that the LORD has not spoken?'-
Deu 18:22 when a prophet speaks in the name of the LORD, if the word does not come to pass or come true,
that is a word that the LORD has not spoken; the prophet has spoken it presumptuously. You need not be afraid
of him.
Deu 19:1 "When the LORD your God cuts off the nations whose land the LORD your God is giving you, and you
dispossess them and dwell in their cities and in their houses,
Deu 19:2 you shall set apart three cities for yourselves in the land that the LORD your God is giving you to
possess.
Deu 19:3 You shall measure the distances and divide into three parts the area of the land that the LORD your
God gives you as a possession, so that any manslayer can flee to them.
Deu 19:4 "This is the provision for the manslayer, who by fleeing there may save his life. If anyone kills his
neighbor unintentionally without having hating him in the pastDeu 19:5 as when someone goes into the forest with his neighbor to cut wood, and his hand swings the axe to
cut down a tree, and the head slips from the handle and strikes his neighbor so that he dies- he may flee to one
of these cities and live,
Deu 19:6 lest the avenger of blood in hot anger pursue the manslayer and overtake him, because the way is
long, and strike him fatally, though the man did not deserve to die, since he had not hated his neighbor in the
past.
Deu 19:7 Therefore I command you, You shall set apart three cities.
Deu 19:8 And if the LORD your God enlarges your territory, as he has sworn to your fathers, and gives you all
the land that he promised to give to your fathersDeu 19:9 provided you are careful to keep all this commandment, which I command you today, by loving the
LORD your God and by walking ever in his ways- then you shall add three other cities to these three,
Deu 19:10 lest innocent blood be shed in your land that the LORD your God is giving you for an inheritance, and
so the guilt of bloodshed be upon you.
Deu 19:11 "But if anyone hates his neighbor and lies in wait for him and attacks him and strikes him fatally so
that he dies, and he flees into one of these cities,
Deu 19:12 then the elders of his city shall send and take him from there, and hand him over to the avenger of
blood, so that he may die.
Deu 19:13 Your eye shall not pity him, but you shall purge the guilt of innocent blood from Israel, so that it may
be well with you.
Deu 19:14 "You shall not move your neighbor's landmark, which the men of old have set, in the inheritance that
you will hold in the land that the LORD your God is giving you to possess.
Deu 19:15 "A single witness shall not suffice against a person for any crime or for any wrong in connection with
any offense that he has committed. Only on the evidence of two witnesses or of three witnesses shall a charge
be established.
Deu 19:16 If a malicious witness arises to accuse a person of wrongdoing,
Deu 19:17 then both parties to the dispute shall appear before the LORD, before the priests and the judges who
are in office in those days.
Deu 19:18 The judges shall inquire diligently, and if the witness is a false witness and has accused his brother
falsely,
Deu 19:19 then you shall do to him as he had meant to do to his brother. So you shall purge the evil from your
midst.
Deu 19:20 And the rest shall hear and fear, and shall never again commit any such evil among you.
Deu 19:21 Your eye shall not pity. It shall be life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot.
Deu 20:1 "When you go out to war against your enemies, and see horses and chariots and an army larger than
your own, you shall not be afraid of them, for the LORD your God is with you, who brought you up out of the land
of Egypt.
Deu 20:2 And when you draw near to the battle, the priest shall come forward and speak to the peopleDeu 20:3 and shall say to them, 'Hear, O Israel, today you are drawing near for battle against your enemies: let
not your heart faint. Do not fear or panic or be in dread of them,
Deu 20:4 for the LORD your God is he who goes with you to fight for you against your enemies, to give you the
victory.'
Deu 20:5 Then the officers shall speak to the people, saying, 'Is there any man who has built a new house and
has not dedicated it? Let him go back to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man dedicate it.
Deu 20:6 And is there any man who has planted a vineyard and has not enjoyed its fruit? Let him go back to his
house, lest he die in the battle and another man enjoy its fruit.
Deu 20:7 And is there any man who has betrothed a wife and has not taken her? Let him go back to his house,
lest he die in the battle and another man take her.'
Deu 20:8 And the officers shall speak further to the people, and say, 'Is there any man who is fearful and
fainthearted? Let him go back to his house, lest he make the heart of his fellows melt like his own.'
Deu 20:9 And when the officers have finished speaking to the people, then commanders shall be appointed at
the head of the people.
Deu 20:10 "When you draw near to a city to fight against it, offer terms of peace to it.
Deu 20:11 And if it responds to you peaceably and it opens to you, then all the people who are found in it shall
do forced labor for you and shall serve you.
Deu 20:12 But if it makes no peace with you, but makes war against you, then you shall besiege it.
Deu 20:13 And when the LORD your God gives it into your hand, you shall put all its males to the sword,
Deu 20:14 but the women and the little ones, the livestock, and everything else in the city, all its spoil, you shall
take as plunder for yourselves. And you shall enjoy the spoil of your enemies, which the LORD your God has
given you.
Deu 20:15 Thus you shall do to all the cities that are very far from you, which are not cities of the nations here.
Deu 20:16 But in the cities of these peoples that the LORD your God is giving you for an inheritance, you shall
save alive nothing that breathes,
Deu 20:17 but you shall devote them to complete destruction, the Hittites and the Amorites, the Canaanites and
the Perizzites, the Hivites and the Jebusites, as the LORD your God has commanded,
Deu 20:18 that they may not teach you to do according to all their abominable practices that they have done for
their gods, and so you sin against the LORD your God.
Deu 20:19 "When you besiege a city for a long time, making war against it in order to take it, you shall not
destroy its trees by wielding an axe against them. You may eat from them, but you shall not cut them down. Are
the trees in the field human, that they should be besieged by you?
Deu 20:20 Only the trees that you know are not trees for food you may destroy and cut down, that you may
build siegeworks against the city that makes war with you, until it falls.
Deu 21:1 "If in the land that the LORD your God is giving you to possess someone is found slain, lying in the
open country, and it is not known who killed him,
Deu 21:2 then your elders and your judges shall come out, and they shall measure the distance to the
surrounding cities.
Deu 21:3 And the elders of the city that is nearest to the slain man shall take a heifer that has never been
worked and that has not pulled in a yoke.
Deu 21:4 And the elders of that city shall bring the heifer down to a valley with running water, which is neither
plowed nor sown, and shall break the heifer's neck there in the valley.
Deu 21:5 Then the priests, the sons of Levi, shall come forward, for the LORD your God has chosen them to
minister to him and to bless in the name of the LORD, and by their word every dispute and every assault shall be
settled.
Deu 21:6 And all the elders of that city nearest to the slain man shall wash their hands over the heifer whose
neck was broken in the valley,
Deu 21:7 and they shall testify, 'Our hands did not shed this blood, nor did our eyes see it shed.
Deu 21:8 Accept atonement, O LORD, for your people Israel, whom you have redeemed, and do not set the
guilt of innocent blood in the midst of your people Israel, so that their blood guilt be atoned for.'
Deu 21:9 So you shall purge the guilt of innocent blood from your midst, when you do what is right in the sight of
the LORD.
Deu 21:10 "When you go out to war against your enemies, and the LORD your God gives them into your hand
and you take them captive,
Deu 21:11 and you see among the captives a beautiful woman, and you desire to take her to be your wife,
Deu 21:12 and you bring her home to your house, she shall shave her head and pare her nails.
Deu 21:13 And she shall take off the clothes in which she was captured and shall remain in your house and
lament her father and her mother a full month. After that you may go in to her and be her husband, and she shall
be your wife.Deu 21:14 But if you no longer delight in her, you shall let her go where she wants. But you shall not sell her for
money, nor shall you treat her as a slave, since you have humiliated her.
Deu 21:15 "If a man has two wives, the one loved and the other unloved, and both the loved and the unloved
have borne him children, and if the firstborn son belongs to the unloved,
Deu 21:16 then on the day when he assigns his possessions as an inheritance to his sons, he may not treat the
son of the loved as the firstborn in preference to the son of the unloved, who is the firstborn,
Deu 21:17 but he shall acknowledge the firstborn, the son of the unloved, by giving him a double portion of all
that he has, for he is the firstfruits of his strength. The right of the firstborn is his.
Deu 21:18 "If a man has a stubborn and rebellious son who will not obey the voice of his father or the voice of
his mother, and, though they discipline him, will not listen to them,
Deu 21:19 then his father and his mother shall take hold of him and bring him out to the elders of his city at the
gate of the place where he lives,
Deu 21:20 and they shall say to the elders of his city, 'This our son is stubborn and rebellious; he will not obey
our voice; he is a glutton and a drunkard.'
Deu 21:21 Then all the men of the city shall stone him to death with stones. So you shall purge the evil from
your midst, and all Israel shall hear, and fear.
Deu 21:22 "And if a man has committed a crime punishable by death and he is put to death, and you hang him
on a tree,
Deu 21:23 his body shall not remain all night on the tree, but you shall bury him the same day, for a hanged
man is cursed by God. You shall not defile your land that the LORD your God is giving you for an inheritance.
Deu 22:1 "You shall not see your brother's ox or his sheep going astray and ignore them. You shall take them
back to your brother.
Deu 22:2 And if he does not live near you and you do not know who he is, you shall bring it home to your house,
and it shall stay with you until your brother seeks it. Then you shall restore it to him.
Deu 22:3 And you shall do the same with his donkey or with his garment, or with any lost thing of your brother's,
which he loses and you find; you may not ignore it.
Deu 22:4 You shall not see your brother's donkey or his ox fallen down by the way and ignore them. You shall
help him to lift them up again.
Deu 22:5 "A woman shall not wear a man's garment, nor shall a man put on a woman's cloak, for whoever does
these things is an abomination to the LORD your God.
Deu 22:6 "If you come across a bird's nest in any tree or on the ground, with young ones or eggs and the
mother sitting on the young or on the eggs, you shall not take the mother with the young.
Deu 22:7 You shall let the mother go, but the young you may take for yourself, that it may go well with you, and
that you may live long.
Deu 22:8 "When you build a new house, you shall make a parapet for your roof, that you may not bring the guilt
of blood upon your house, if anyone should fall from it.
Deu 22:9 "You shall not sow your vineyard with two kinds of seed, lest the whole yield be forfeited, the crop that
you have sown and the yield of the vineyard.
Deu 22:10 You shall not plow with an ox and a donkey together.
Deu 22:11 You shall not wear cloth of wool and linen mixed together.
Deu 22:12 "You shall make yourself tassels on the four corners of the garment with which you cover yourself.
Deu 22:13 "If any man takes a wife and goes in to her and then hates her
Deu 22:14 and accuses her of misconduct and brings a bad name upon her, saying, 'I took this woman, and
when I came near her, I did not find in her evidence of virginity,'
Deu 22:15 then the father of the young woman and her mother shall take and bring out the evidence of her
virginity to the elders of the city in the gate.
Deu 22:16 And the father of the young woman shall say to the elders, 'I gave my daughter to this man to marry,
and he hates her;
Deu 22:17 and behold, he has accused her of misconduct, saying, "I did not find in your daughter evidence of
virginity." And yet this is the evidence of my daughter's virginity.' And they shall spread the cloak before the
elders of the city.
Deu 22:18 Then the elders of that city shall take the man and whip him,
Deu 22:19 and they shall fine him a hundred shekels of silver and give them to the father of the young woman,
because he has brought a bad name upon a virgin of Israel. And she shall be his wife. He may not divorce her all
his days.
Deu 22:20 But if the thing is true, that evidence of virginity was not found in the young woman,
Deu 22:21 then they shall bring out the young woman to the door of her father's house, and the men of her city
shall stone her to death with stones, because she has done an outrageous thing in Israel by whoring in her
father's house. So you shall purge the evil from your midst.Deu 22:22 "If a man is found lying with the wife of another man, both of them shall die, the man who lay with the
woman, and the woman. So you shall purge the evil from Israel.
Deu 22:23 "If there is a betrothed virgin, and a man meets her in the city and lies with her,
Deu 22:24 then you shall bring them both out to the gate of that city, and you shall stone them to death with
stones, the young woman because she did not cry for help though she was in the city, and the man because he
violated his neighbor's wife. So you shall purge the evil from your midst.
Deu 22:25 "But if in the open country a man meets a young woman who is betrothed, and the man seizes her
and lies with her, then only the man who lay with her shall die.
Deu 22:26 But you shall do nothing to the young woman; she has committed no offense punishable by death.
For this case is like that of a man attacking and murdering his neighbor,
Deu 22:27 because he met her in the open country, and though the betrothed young woman cried for help there
was no one to rescue her.
Deu 22:28 "If a man meets a virgin who is not betrothed, and seizes her and lies with her, and they are found,
Deu 22:29 then the man who lay with her shall give to the father of the young woman fifty shekels of silver, and
she shall be his wife, because he has violated her. He may not divorce her all his days.
Deu 22:30 "A man shall not take his father's wife, so that he does not uncover his father's nakedness.
Deu 23:1 "No one whose testicles are crushed or whose male organ is cut off shall enter the assembly of the
LORD.
Deu 23:2 "No one born of a forbidden union may enter the assembly of the LORD. Even to the tenth generation,
none of his descendants may enter the assembly of the LORD.
Deu 23:3 "No Ammonite or Moabite may enter the assembly of the LORD. Even to the tenth generation, none of
them may enter the assembly of the LORD forever,
Deu 23:4 because they did not meet you with bread and with water on the way, when you came out of Egypt,
and because they hired against you Balaam the son of Beor from Pethor of Mesopotamia, to curse you.
Deu 23:5 But the LORD your God would not listen to Balaam; instead the LORD your God turned the curse into
a blessing for you, because the LORD your God loved you.
Deu 23:6 You shall not seek their peace or their prosperity all your days forever.
Deu 23:7 "You shall not abhor an Edomite, for he is your brother. You shall not abhor an Egyptian, because you
were a sojourner in his land.
Deu 23:8 Children born to them in the third generation may enter the assembly of the LORD.
Deu 23:9 "When you are encamped against your enemies, then you shall keep yourself from every evil thing.
Deu 23:10 "If any man among you becomes unclean because of a nocturnal emission, then he shall go outside
the camp. He shall not come inside the camp,
Deu 23:11 but when evening comes, he shall bathe himself in water, and as the sun sets, he may come inside
the camp.
Deu 23:12 "You shall have a place outside the camp, and you shall go out to it.
Deu 23:13 And you shall have a trowel with your tools, and when you sit down outside, you shall dig a hole with
it and turn back and cover up your excrement.
Deu 23:14 Because the LORD your God walks in the midst of your camp, to deliver you and to give up your
enemies before you, therefore your camp must be holy, so that he may not see anything indecent among you
and turn away from you.
Deu 23:15 "You shall not give up to his master a slave who has escaped from his master to you.
Deu 23:16 He shall dwell with you, in your midst, in the place that he shall choose within one of your towns,
wherever it suits him. You shall not wrong him.
Deu 23:17 "None of the daughters of Israel shall be a cult prostitute, and none of the sons of Israel shall be a
cult prostitute.
Deu 23:18 You shall not bring the fee of a prostitute or the wages of a dog into the house of the LORD your God
in payment for any vow, for both of these are an abomination to the LORD your God.
Deu 23:19 "You shall not charge interest on loans to your brother, interest on money, interest on food, interest
on anything that is lent for interest.
Deu 23:20 You may charge a foreigner interest, but you may not charge your brother interest, that the LORD
your God may bless you in all that you undertake in the land that you are entering to take possession of it.
Deu 23:21 "If you make a vow to the LORD your God, you shall not delay fulfilling it, for the LORD your God will
surely require it of you, and you will be guilty of sin.
Deu 23:22 But if you refrain from vowing, you will not be guilty of sin.
Deu 23:23 You shall be careful to do what has passed your lips, for you have voluntarily vowed to the LORD
your God what you have promised with your mouth.
Deu 23:24 "If you go into your neighbor's vineyard, you may eat your fill of grapes, as many as you wish, but
you shall not put any in your bag.Deu 23:25 If you go into your neighbor's standing grain, you may pluck the ears with your hand, but you shall
not put a sickle to your neighbor's standing grain.
Deu 24:1 "When a man takes a wife and marries her, if then she finds no favor in his eyes because he has
found some indecency in her, and he writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out
of his house, and she departs out of his house,
Deu 24:2 and if she goes and becomes another man's wife,
Deu 24:3 and the latter man hates her and writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends
her out of his house, or if the latter man dies, who took her to be his wife,
Deu 24:4 then her former husband, who sent her away, may not take her again to be his wife, after she has
been defiled, for that is an abomination before the LORD. And you shall not bring sin upon the land that the
LORD your God is giving you for an inheritance.
Deu 24:5 "When a man is newly married, he shall not go out with the army or be liable for any other public duty.
He shall be free at home one year to be happy with his wife whom he has taken.
Deu 24:6 "No one shall take a mill or an upper millstone in pledge, for that would be taking a life in pledge.
Deu 24:7 "If a man is found stealing one of his brothers, the people of Israel, and if he treats him as a slave or
sells him, then that thief shall die. So you shall purge the evil from your midst.
Deu 24:8 "Take care, in a case of leprous disease, to be very careful to do according to all that the Levitical
priests shall direct you. As I commanded them, so you shall be careful to do.
Deu 24:9 Remember what the LORD your God did to Miriam on the way as you came out of Egypt.
Deu 24:10 "When you make your neighbor a loan of any sort, you shall not go into his house to collect his
pledge.
Deu 24:11 You shall stand outside, and the man to whom you make the loan shall bring the pledge out to you.
Deu 24:12 And if he is a poor man, you shall not sleep in his pledge.
Deu 24:13 You shall restore to him the pledge as the sun sets, that he may sleep in his cloak and bless you.
And it shall be righteousness for you before the LORD your God.
Deu 24:14 "You shall not oppress a hired servant who is poor and needy, whether he is one of your brothers or
one of the sojourners who are in your land within your towns.
Deu 24:15 You shall give him his wages on the same day, before the sun sets (for he is poor and counts on it),
lest he cry against you to the LORD, and you be guilty of sin.
Deu 24:16 "Fathers shall not be put to death because of their children, nor shall children be put to death
because of their fathers. Each one shall be put to death for his own sin.
Deu 24:17 "You shall not pervert the justice due to the sojourner or to the fatherless, or take a widow's garment
in pledge,
Deu 24:18 but you shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt and the LORD your God redeemed you from
there; therefore I command you to do this.
Deu 24:19 "When you reap your harvest in your field and forget a sheaf in the field, you shall not go back to get
it. It shall be for the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, that the LORD your God may bless you in all the
work of your hands.
Deu 24:20 When you beat your olive trees, you shall not go over them again. It shall be for the sojourner, the
fatherless, and the widow.
Deu 24:21 When you gather the grapes of your vineyard, you shall not strip it afterward. It shall be for the
sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow.
Deu 24:22 You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt; therefore I command you to do this.
Deu 25:1 "If there is a dispute between men and they come into court and the judges decide between them,
acquitting the innocent and condemning the guilty,
Deu 25:2 then if the guilty man deserves to be beaten, the judge shall cause him to lie down and be beaten in
his presence with a number of stripes in proportion to his offense.
Deu 25:3 Forty stripes may be given him, but not more, lest, if one should go on to beat him with more stripes
than these, your brother be degraded in your sight.
Deu 25:4 "You shall not muzzle an ox when it is treading out the grain.
Deu 25:5 "If brothers dwell together, and one of them dies and has no son, the wife of the dead man shall not
be married outside the family to a stranger. Her husband's brother shall go in to her and take her as his wife and
perform the duty of a husband's brother to her.
Deu 25:6 And the first son whom she bears shall succeed to the name of his dead brother, that his name may
not be blotted out of Israel.
Deu 25:7 And if the man does not wish to take his brother's wife, then his brother's wife shall go up to the gate
to the elders and say, 'My husband's brother refuses to perpetuate his brother's name in Israel; he will not
perform the duty of a husband's brother to me.'
Deu 25:8 Then the elders of his city shall call him and speak to him, and if he persists, saying, 'I do not wish totake her,'
Deu 25:9 then his brother's wife shall go up to him in the presence of the elders and pull his sandal off his foot
and spit in his face. And she shall answer and say, 'So shall it be done to the man who does not build up his
brother's house.'
Deu 25:10 And the name of his house shall be called in Israel, 'The house of him who had his sandal pulled off.'
Deu 25:11 "When men fight with one another and the wife of the one draws near to rescue her husband from
the hand of him who is beating him and puts out her hand and seizes him by the private parts,
Deu 25:12 then you shall cut off her hand. Your eye shall have no pity.
Deu 25:13 "You shall not have in your bag two kinds of weights, a large and a small.
Deu 25:14 You shall not have in your house two kinds of measures, a large and a small.
Deu 25:15 A full and fair weight you shall have, a full and fair measure you shall have, that your days may be
long in the land that the LORD your God is giving you.
Deu 25:16 For all who do such things, all who act dishonestly, are an abomination to the LORD your God.
Deu 25:17 "Remember what Amalek did to you on the way as you came out of Egypt,
Deu 25:18 how he attacked you on the way when you were faint and weary, and cut off your tail, those who
were lagging behind you, and he did not fear God.
Deu 25:19 Therefore when the LORD your God has given you rest from all your enemies around you, in the
land that the LORD your God is giving you for an inheritance to possess, you shall blot out the memory of
Amalek from under heaven; you shall not forget.
Deu 26:1 "When you come into the land that the LORD your God is giving you for an inheritance and have
taken possession of it and live in it,
Deu 26:2 you shall take some of the first of all the fruit of the ground, which you harvest from your land that the
LORD your God is giving you, and you shall put it in a basket, and you shall go to the place that the LORD your
God will choose, to make his name to dwell there.
Deu 26:3 And you shall go to the priest who is in office at that time and say to him, 'I declare today to the LORD
your God that I have come into the land that the LORD swore to our fathers to give us.'
Deu 26:4 Then the priest shall take the basket from your hand and set it down before the altar of the LORD your
God.
Deu 26:5 "And you shall make response before the LORD your God, 'A wandering Aramean was my father. And
he went down into Egypt and sojourned there, few in number, and there he became a nation, great, mighty, and
populous.
Deu 26:6 And the Egyptians treated us harshly and humiliated us and laid on us hard labor.
Deu 26:7 Then we cried to the LORD, the God of our fathers, and the LORD heard our voice and saw our
affliction, our toil, and our oppression.
Deu 26:8 And the LORD brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, with great deeds
of terror, with signs and wonders.
Deu 26:9 And he brought us into this place and gave us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey.
Deu 26:10 And behold, now I bring the first of the fruit of the ground, which you, O LORD, have given me.' And
you shall set it down before the LORD your God and worship before the LORD your God.
Deu 26:11 And you shall rejoice in all the good that the LORD your God has given to you and to your house,
you, and the Levite, and the sojourner who is among you.
Deu 26:12 "When you have finished paying all the tithe of your produce in the third year, which is the year of
tithing, giving it to the Levite, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, so that they may eat within your towns
and be filled,
Deu 26:13 then you shall say before the LORD your God, 'I have removed the sacred portion out of my house,
and moreover, I have given it to the Levite, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, according to all your
commandment that you have commanded me. I have not transgressed any of your commandments, nor have I
forgotten them.
Deu 26:14 I have not eaten of the tithe while I was mourning, or removed any of it while I was unclean, or
offered any of it to the dead. I have obeyed the voice of the LORD my God. I have done according to all that you
have commanded me.
Deu 26:15 Look down from your holy habitation, from heaven, and bless your people Israel and the ground that
you have given us, as you swore to our fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey.'
Deu 26:16 "This day the LORD your God commands you to do these statutes and rules. You shall therefore be
careful to do them with all your heart and with all your soul.
Deu 26:17 You have declared today that the LORD is your God, and that you will walk in his ways, and keep his
statutes and his commandments and his rules, and will obey his voice.
Deu 26:18 And the LORD has declared today that you are a people for his treasured possession, as he has
promised you, and that you are to keep all his commandments,Deu 26:19 and that he will set you in praise and in fame and in honor high above all nations that he has made,
and that you shall be a people holy to the LORD your God, as he promised."
Deu 27:1 Now Moses and the elders of Israel commanded the people, saying, "Keep the whole commandment
that I command you today.
Deu 27:2 And on the day you cross over the Jordan to the land that the LORD your God is giving you, you shall
set up large stones and plaster them with plaster.
Deu 27:3 And you shall write on them all the words of this law, when you cross over to enter the land that the
LORD your God is giving you, a land flowing with milk and honey, as the LORD, the God of your fathers, has
promised you.
Deu 27:4 And when you have crossed over the Jordan, you shall set up these stones, concerning which I
command you today, on Mount Ebal, and you shall plaster them with plaster.
Deu 27:5 And there you shall build an altar to the LORD your God, an altar of stones. You shall wield no iron
tool on them;
Deu 27:6 you shall build an altar to the LORD your God of uncut stones. And you shall offer burnt offerings on it
to the LORD your God,
Deu 27:7 and you shall sacrifice peace offerings and shall eat there, and you shall rejoice before the LORD your
God.
Deu 27:8 And you shall write on the stones all the words of this law very plainly."
Deu 27:9 Then Moses and the Levitical priests said to all Israel, "Keep silence and hear, O Israel: this day you
have become the people of the LORD your God.
Deu 27:10 You shall therefore obey the voice of the LORD your God, keeping his commandments and his
statutes, which I command you today."
Deu 27:11 That day Moses charged the people, saying,
Deu 27:12 "When you have crossed over the Jordan, these shall stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people:
Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin.
Deu 27:13 And these shall stand on Mount Ebal for the curse: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and
Naphtali.
Deu 27:14 And the Levites shall declare to all the men of Israel in a loud voice:
Deu 27:15 "'Cursed be the man who makes a carved or cast metal image, an abomination to the LORD, a thing
made by the hands of a craftsman, and sets it up in secret.' And all the people shall answer and say, 'Amen.'
Deu 27:16 "'Cursed be anyone who dishonors his father or his mother.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'
Deu 27:17 "'Cursed be anyone who moves his neighbor's landmark.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'
Deu 27:18 "'Cursed be anyone who misleads a blind man on the road.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'
Deu 27:19 "'Cursed be anyone who perverts the justice due to the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow.' And
all the people shall say, 'Amen.'
Deu 27:20 "'Cursed be anyone who lies with his father's wife, because he has uncovered his father's
nakedness.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'
Deu 27:21 "'Cursed be anyone who lies with any kind of animal.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'
Deu 27:22 "'Cursed be anyone who lies with his sister, whether the daughter of his father or the daughter of his
mother.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'
Deu 27:23 "'Cursed be anyone who lies with his mother-in-law.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'
Deu 27:24 "'Cursed be anyone who strikes down his neighbor in secret.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'
Deu 27:25 "'Cursed be anyone who takes a bribe to shed innocent blood.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'
Deu 27:26 "'Cursed be anyone who does not confirm the words of this law by doing them.' And all the people
shall say, 'Amen.'
Deu 28:1 "And if you faithfully obey the voice of the LORD your God, being careful to do all his commandments
that I command you today, the LORD your God will set you high above all the nations of the earth.
Deu 28:2 And all these blessings shall come upon you and overtake you, if you obey the voice of the LORD
your God.
Deu 28:3 Blessed shall you be in the city, and blessed shall you be in the field.
Deu 28:4 Blessed shall be the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground and the fruit of your cattle, the
increase of your herds and the young of your flock.
Deu 28:5 Blessed shall be your basket and your kneading bowl.
Deu 28:6 Blessed shall you be when you come in, and blessed shall you be when you go out.
Deu 28:7 "The LORD will cause your enemies who rise against you to be defeated before you. They shall come
out against you one way and flee before you seven ways.
Deu 28:8 The LORD will command the blessing on you in your barns and in all that you undertake. And he will
bless you in the land that the LORD your God is giving you.
Deu 28:9 The LORD will establish you as a people holy to himself, as he has sworn to you, if you keep thecommandments of the LORD your God and walk in his ways.
Deu 28:10 And all the peoples of the earth shall see that you are called by the name of the LORD, and they
shall be afraid of you.
Deu 28:11 And the LORD will make you abound in prosperity, in the fruit of your womb and in the fruit of your
livestock and in the fruit of your ground, within the land that the LORD swore to your fathers to give you.
Deu 28:12 The LORD will open to you his good treasury, the heavens, to give the rain to your land in its season
and to bless all the work of your hands. And you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow.
Deu 28:13 And the LORD will make you the head and not the tail, and you shall only go up and not down, if you
obey the commandments of the LORD your God, which I command you today, being careful to do them,
Deu 28:14 and if you do not turn aside from any of the words that I command you today, to the right hand or to
the left, to go after other gods to serve them.
Deu 28:15 "But if you will not obey the voice of the LORD your God or be careful to do all his commandments
and his statutes that I command you today, then all these curses shall come upon you and overtake you.
Deu 28:16 Cursed shall you be in the city, and cursed shall you be in the field.
Deu 28:17 Cursed shall be your basket and your kneading bowl.
Deu 28:18 Cursed shall be the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground, the increase of your herds and
the young of your flock.
Deu 28:19 Cursed shall you be when you come in, and cursed shall you be when you go out.
Deu 28:20 "The LORD will send on you curses, confusion, and frustration in all that you undertake to do, until
you are destroyed and perish quickly on account of the evil of your deeds, because you have forsaken me.
Deu 28:21 The LORD will make the pestilence stick to you until he has consumed you off the land that you are
entering to take possession of it.
Deu 28:22 The LORD will strike you with wasting disease and with fever, inflammation and fiery heat, and with
drought and with blight and with mildew. They shall pursue you until you perish.
Deu 28:23 And the heavens over your head shall be bronze, and the earth under you shall be iron.
Deu 28:24 The LORD will make the rain of your land powder. From heaven dust shall come down on you until
you are destroyed.
Deu 28:25 "The LORD will cause you to be defeated before your enemies. You shall go out one way against
them and flee seven ways before them. And you shall be a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth.
Deu 28:26 And your dead body shall be food for all birds of the air and for the beasts of the earth, and there
shall be no one to frighten them away.
Deu 28:27 The LORD will strike you with the boils of Egypt, and with tumors and scabs and itch, of which you
cannot be healed.
Deu 28:28 The LORD will strike you with madness and blindness and confusion of mind,
Deu 28:29 and you shall grope at noonday, as the blind grope in darkness, and you shall not prosper in your
ways. And you shall be only oppressed and robbed continually, and there shall be no one to help you.
Deu 28:30 You shall betroth a wife, but another man shall ravish her. You shall build a house, but you shall not
dwell in it. You shall plant a vineyard, but you shall not enjoy its fruit.
Deu 28:31 Your ox shall be slaughtered before your eyes, but you shall not eat any of it. Your donkey shall be
seized before your face, but shall not be restored to you. Your sheep shall be given to your enemies, but there
shall be no one to help you.
Deu 28:32 Your sons and your daughters shall be given to another people, while your eyes look on and fail with
longing for them all day long, but you shall be helpless.
Deu 28:33 A nation that you have not known shall eat up the fruit of your ground and of all your labors, and you
shall be only oppressed and crushed continually,
Deu 28:34 so that you are driven mad by the sights that your eyes see.
Deu 28:35 The LORD will strike you on the knees and on the legs with grievous boils of which you cannot be
healed, from the sole of your foot to the crown of your head.
Deu 28:36 "The LORD will bring you and your king whom you set over you to a nation that neither you nor your
fathers have known. And there you shall serve other gods of wood and stone.
Deu 28:37 And you shall become a horror, a proverb, and a byword among all the peoples where the LORD will
lead you away.
Deu 28:38 You shall carry much seed into the field and shall gather in little, for the locust shall consume it.
Deu 28:39 You shall plant vineyards and dress them, but you shall neither drink of the wine nor gather the
grapes, for the worm shall eat them.
Deu 28:40 You shall have olive trees throughout all your territory, but you shall not anoint yourself with the oil,
for your olives shall drop off.
Deu 28:41 You shall father sons and daughters, but they shall not be yours, for they shall go into captivity.
Deu 28:42 The cricket shall possess all your trees and the fruit of your ground.Deu 28:43 The sojourner who is among you shall rise higher and higher above you, and you shall come down
lower and lower.
Deu 28:44 He shall lend to you, and you shall not lend to him. He shall be the head, and you shall be the tail.
Deu 28:45 "All these curses shall come upon you and pursue you and overtake you till you are destroyed,
because you did not obey the voice of the LORD your God, to keep his commandments and his statutes that he
commanded you.
Deu 28:46 They shall be a sign and a wonder against you and your offspring forever.
Deu 28:47 Because you did not serve the LORD your God with joyfulness and gladness of heart, because of the
abundance of all things,
Deu 28:48 therefore you shall serve your enemies whom the LORD will send against you, in hunger and thirst,
in nakedness, and lacking everything. And he will put a yoke of iron on your neck until he has destroyed you.
Deu 28:49 The LORD will bring a nation against you from far away, from the end of the earth, swooping down
like the eagle, a nation whose language you do not understand,
Deu 28:50 a hard-faced nation who shall not respect the old or show mercy to the young.
Deu 28:51 It shall eat the offspring of your cattle and the fruit of your ground, until you are destroyed; it also
shall not leave you grain, wine, or oil, the increase of your herds or the young of your flock, until they have
caused you to perish.
Deu 28:52 "They shall besiege you in all your towns, until your high and fortified walls, in which you trusted,
come down throughout all your land. And they shall besiege you in all your towns throughout all your land, which
the LORD your God has given you.
Deu 28:53 And you shall eat the fruit of your womb, the flesh of your sons and daughters, whom the LORD your
God has given you, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemies shall distress you.
Deu 28:54 The man who is the most tender and refined among you will begrudge food to his brother, to the wife
he embraces, and to the last of the children whom he has left,
Deu 28:55 so that he will not give to any of them any of the flesh of his children whom he is eating, because he
has nothing else left, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemy shall distress you in all your towns.
Deu 28:56 The most tender and refined woman among you, who would not venture to set the sole of her foot on
the ground because she is so delicate and tender, will begrudge to the husband she embraces, to her son and to
her daughter,
Deu 28:57 her afterbirth that comes out from between her feet and her children whom she bears, because
lacking everything she will eat them secretly, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemy shall
distress you in your towns.
Deu 28:58 "If you are not careful to do all the words of this law that are written in this book, that you may fear
this glorious and awesome name, the LORD your God,
Deu 28:59 then the LORD will bring on you and your offspring extraordinary afflictions, afflictions severe and
lasting, and sicknesses grievous and lasting.
Deu 28:60 And he will bring upon you again all the diseases of Egypt, of which you were afraid, and they shall
cling to you.
Deu 28:61 Every sickness also and every affliction that is not recorded in the book of this law, the LORD will
bring upon you, until you are destroyed.
Deu 28:62 Whereas you were as numerous as the stars of heaven, you shall be left few in number, because
you did not obey the voice of the LORD your God.
Deu 28:63 And as the LORD took delight in doing you good and multiplying you, so the LORD will take delight in
bringing ruin upon you and destroying you. And you shall be plucked off the land that you are entering to take
possession of it.
Deu 28:64 "And the LORD will scatter you among all peoples, from one end of the earth to the other, and there
you shall serve other gods of wood and stone, which neither you nor your fathers have known.
Deu 28:65 And among these nations you shall find no respite, and there shall be no resting place for the sole of
your foot, but the LORD will give you there a trembling heart and failing eyes and a languishing soul.
Deu 28:66 Your life shall hang in doubt before you. Night and day you shall be in dread and have no assurance
of your life.
Deu 28:67 In the morning you shall say, 'If only it were evening!' and at evening you shall say, 'If only it were
morning!' because of the dread that your heart shall feel, and the sights that your eyes shall see.
Deu 28:68 And the LORD will bring you back in ships to Egypt, a journey that I promised that you should never
make again; and there you shall offer yourselves for sale to your enemies as male and female slaves, but there
will be no buyer."
Deu 29:1 These are the words of the covenant that the LORD commanded Moses to make with the people of
Israel in the land of Moab, besides the covenant that he had made with them at Horeb.
Deu 29:2 And Moses summoned all Israel and said to them: "You have seen all that the LORD did before youreyes in the land of Egypt, to Pharaoh and to all his servants and to all his land,
Deu 29:3 the great trials that your eyes saw, the signs, and those great wonders.
Deu 29:4 But to this day the LORD has not given you a heart to understand or eyes to see or ears to hear.
Deu 29:5 I have led you forty years in the wilderness. Your clothes have not worn out on you, and your sandals
have not worn off your feet.
Deu 29:6 You have not eaten bread, and you have not drunk wine or strong drink, that you may know that I am
the LORD your God.
Deu 29:7 And when you came to this place, Sihon the king of Heshbon and Og the king of Bashan came out
against us to battle, but we defeated them.
Deu 29:8 We took their land and gave it for an inheritance to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of
the Manassites.
Deu 29:9 Therefore keep the words of this covenant and do them, that you may prosper in all that you do.
Deu 29:10 "You are standing today all of you before the LORD your God: the heads of your tribes, your elders,
and your officers, all the men of Israel,
Deu 29:11 your little ones, your wives, and the sojourner who is in your camp, from the one who chops your
wood to the one who draws your water,
Deu 29:12 so that you may enter into the sworn covenant of the LORD your God, which the LORD your God is
making with you today,
Deu 29:13 that he may establish you today as his people, and that he may be your God, as he promised you,
and as he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
Deu 29:14 It is not with you alone that I am making this sworn covenant,
Deu 29:15 but with whomever is standing here with us today before the LORD our God, and with whomever is
not here with us today.
Deu 29:16 "You know how we lived in the land of Egypt, and how we came through the midst of the nations
through which you passed.
Deu 29:17 And you have seen their detestable things, their idols of wood and stone, of silver and gold, which
were among them.
Deu 29:18 Beware lest there be among you a man or woman or clan or tribe whose heart is turning away today
from the LORD our God to go and serve the gods of those nations. Beware lest there be among you a root
bearing poisonous and bitter fruit,
Deu 29:19 one who, when he hears the words of this sworn covenant, blesses himself in his heart, saying, 'I
shall be safe, though I walk in the stubbornness of my heart.' This will lead to the sweeping away of moist and
dry alike.
Deu 29:20 The LORD will not be willing to forgive him, but rather the anger of the LORD and his jealousy will
smoke against that man, and the curses written in this book will settle upon him, and the LORD will blot out his
name from under heaven.
Deu 29:21 And the LORD will single him out from all the tribes of Israel for calamity, in accordance with all the
curses of the covenant written in this Book of the Law.
Deu 29:22 And the next generation, your children who rise up after you, and the foreigner who comes from a far
land, will say, when they see the afflictions of that land and the sicknesses with which the LORD has made it
sickDeu 29:23 the whole land burned out with brimstone and salt, nothing sown and nothing growing, where no
plant can sprout, an overthrow like that of Sodom and Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboiim, which the LORD
overthrew in his anger and wrathDeu 29:24 all the nations will say, 'Why has the LORD done thus to this land? What caused the heat of this
great anger?'
Deu 29:25 Then people will say, 'It is because they abandoned the covenant of the LORD, the God of their
fathers, which he made with them when he brought them out of the land of Egypt,
Deu 29:26 and went and served other gods and worshiped them, gods whom they had not known and whom he
had not allotted to them.
Deu 29:27 Therefore the anger of the LORD was kindled against this land, bringing upon it all the curses written
in this book,
Deu 29:28 and the LORD uprooted them from their land in anger and fury and great wrath, and cast them into
another land, as they are this day.'
Deu 29:29 "The secret things belong to the LORD our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us and to
our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law.
Deu 30:1 "And when all these things come upon you, the blessing and the curse, which I have set before you,
and you call them to mind among all the nations where the LORD your God has driven you,
Deu 30:2 and return to the LORD your God, you and your children, and obey his voice in all that I command youtoday, with all your heart and with all your soul,
Deu 30:3 then the LORD your God will restore your fortunes and have compassion on you, and he will gather
you again from all the peoples where the LORD your God has scattered you.
Deu 30:4 If your outcasts are in the uttermost parts of heaven, from there the LORD your God will gather you,
and from there he will take you.
Deu 30:5 And the LORD your God will bring you into the land that your fathers possessed, that you may
possess it. And he will make you more prosperous and numerous than your fathers.
Deu 30:6 And the LORD your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your offspring, so that you will love
the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul, that you may live.
Deu 30:7 And the LORD your God will put all these curses on your foes and enemies who persecuted you.
Deu 30:8 And you shall again obey the voice of the LORD and keep all his commandments that I command you
today.
Deu 30:9 The LORD your God will make you abundantly prosperous in all the work of your hand, in the fruit of
your womb and in the fruit of your cattle and in the fruit of your ground. For the LORD will again take delight in
prospering you, as he took delight in your fathers,
Deu 30:10 when you obey the voice of the LORD your God, to keep his commandments and his statutes that
are written in this Book of the Law, when you turn to the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your
soul.
Deu 30:11 "For this commandment that I command you today is not too hard for you, neither is it far off.
Deu 30:12 It is not in heaven, that you should say, 'Who will ascend to heaven for us and bring it to us, that we
may hear it and do it?'
Deu 30:13 Neither is it beyond the sea, that you should say, 'Who will go over the sea for us and bring it to us,
that we may hear it and do it?'
Deu 30:14 But the word is very near you. It is in your mouth and in your heart, so that you can do it.
Deu 30:15 "See, I have set before you today life and good, death and evil.
Deu 30:16 If you obey the commandments of the LORD your God that I command you today, by loving the
LORD your God, by walking in his ways, and by keeping his commandments and his statutes and his rules, then
you shall live and multiply, and the LORD your God will bless you in the land that you are entering to take
possession of it.
Deu 30:17 But if your heart turns away, and you will not hear, but are drawn away to worship other gods and
serve them,
Deu 30:18 I declare to you today, that you shall surely perish. You shall not live long in the land that you are
going over the Jordan to enter and possess.
Deu 30:19 I call heaven and earth to witness against you today, that I have set before you life and death,
blessing and curse. Therefore choose life, that you and your offspring may live,
Deu 30:20 loving the LORD your God, obeying his voice and holding fast to him, for he is your life and length of
days, that you may dwell in the land that the LORD swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to
give them."
Deu 31:1 So Moses continued to speak these words to all Israel.
Deu 31:2 And he said to them, "I am 120 years old today. I am no longer able to go out and come in. The LORD
has said to me, 'You shall not go over this Jordan.'
Deu 31:3 The LORD your God himself will go over before you. He will destroy these nations before you, so that
you shall dispossess them, and Joshua will go over at your head, as the LORD has spoken.
Deu 31:4 And the LORD will do to them as he did to Sihon and Og, the kings of the Amorites, and to their land,
when he destroyed them.
Deu 31:5 And the LORD will give them over to you, and you shall do to them according to the whole
commandment that I have commanded you.
Deu 31:6 Be strong and courageous. Do not fear or be in dread of them, for it is the LORD your God who goes
with you. He will not leave you or forsake you."
Deu 31:7 Then Moses summoned Joshua and said to him in the sight of all Israel, "Be strong and courageous,
for you shall go with this people into the land that the LORD has sworn to their fathers to give them, and you
shall put them in possession of it.
Deu 31:8 It is the LORD who goes before you. He will be with you; he will not leave you or forsake you. Do not
fear or be dismayed."
Deu 31:9 Then Moses wrote this law and gave it to the priests, the sons of Levi, who carried the ark of the
covenant of the LORD, and to all the elders of Israel.
Deu 31:10 And Moses commanded them, "At the end of every seven years, at the set time in the year of
release, at the Feast of Booths,
Deu 31:11 when all Israel comes to appear before the LORD your God at the place that he will choose, youshall read this law before all Israel in their hearing.
Deu 31:12 Assemble the people, men, women, and little ones, and the sojourner within your towns, that they
may hear and learn to fear the LORD your God, and be careful to do all the words of this law,
Deu 31:13 and that their children, who have not known it, may hear and learn to fear the LORD your God, as
long as you live in the land that you are going over the Jordan to possess."
Deu 31:14 And the LORD said to Moses, "Behold, the days approach when you must die. Call Joshua and
present yourselves in the tent of meeting, that I may commission him." And Moses and Joshua went and
presented themselves in the tent of meeting.
Deu 31:15 And the LORD appeared in the tent in a pillar of cloud. And the pillar of cloud stood over the entrance
of the tent.
Deu 31:16 And the LORD said to Moses, "Behold, you are about to lie down with your fathers. Then this people
will rise and whore after the foreign gods among them in the land that they are entering, and they will forsake me
and break my covenant that I have made with them.
Deu 31:17 Then my anger will be kindled against them in that day, and I will forsake them and hide my face
from them, and they will be devoured. And many evils and troubles will come upon them, so that they will say in
that day, 'Have not these evils come upon us because our God is not among us?'
Deu 31:18 And I will surely hide my face in that day because of all the evil that they have done, because they
have turned to other gods.
Deu 31:19 "Now therefore write this song and teach it to the people of Israel. Put it in their mouths, that this
song may be a witness for me against the people of Israel.
Deu 31:20 For when I have brought them into the land flowing with milk and honey, which I swore to give to their
fathers, and they have eaten and are full and grown fat, they will turn to other gods and serve them, and despise
me and break my covenant.
Deu 31:21 And when many evils and troubles have come upon them, this song shall confront them as a witness
(for it will live unforgotten in the mouths of their offspring). For I know what they are inclined to do even today,
before I have brought them into the land that I swore to give."
Deu 31:22 So Moses wrote this song the same day and taught it to the people of Israel.
Deu 31:23 And the LORD commissioned Joshua the son of Nun and said, "Be strong and courageous, for you
shall bring the people of Israel into the land that I swore to give them. I will be with you."
Deu 31:24 When Moses had finished writing the words of this law in a book to the very end,
Deu 31:25 Moses commanded the Levites who carried the ark of the covenant of the LORD,
Deu 31:26 "Take this Book of the Law and put it by the side of the ark of the covenant of the LORD your God,
that it may be there for a witness against you.
Deu 31:27 For I know how rebellious and stubborn you are. Behold, even today while I am yet alive with you,
you have been rebellious against the LORD. How much more after my death!
Deu 31:28 Assemble to me all the elders of your tribes and your officers, that I may speak these words in their
ears and call heaven and earth to witness against them.
Deu 31:29 For I know that after my death you will surely act corruptly and turn aside from the way that I have
commanded you. And in the days to come evil will befall you, because you will do what is evil in the sight of the
LORD, provoking him to anger through the work of your hands."
Deu 31:30 Then Moses spoke the words of this song until they were finished, in the ears of all the assembly of
Israel:
Deu 32:1 "Give ear, O heavens, and I will speak, and let the earth hear the words of my mouth.
Deu 32:2 May my teaching drop as the rain, my speech distill as the dew, like gentle rain upon the tender grass,
and like showers upon the herb.
Deu 32:3 For I will proclaim the name of the LORD; ascribe greatness to our God!
Deu 32:4 "The Rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are justice. A God of faithfulness and without iniquity,
just and upright is he.
Deu 32:5 They have dealt corruptly with him; they are no longer his children because they are blemished; they
are a crooked and twisted generation.
Deu 32:6 Do you thus repay the LORD, you foolish and senseless people? Is not he your father, who created
you, who made you and established you?
Deu 32:7 Remember the days of old; consider the years of many generations; ask your father, and he will show
you, your elders, and they will tell you.
Deu 32:8 When the Most High gave to the nations their inheritance, when he divided mankind, he fixed the
borders of the peoples according to the number of the sons of God.
Deu 32:9 But the LORD's portion is his people, Jacob his allotted heritage.
Deu 32:10 "He found him in a desert land, and in the howling waste of the wilderness; he encircled him, he
cared for him, he kept him as the apple of his eye.Deu 32:11 Like an eagle that stirs up its nest, that flutters over its young, spreading out its wings, catching them,
bearing them on its pinions,
Deu 32:12 the LORD alone guided him, no foreign god was with him.
Deu 32:13 He made him ride on the high places of the land, and he ate the produce of the field, and he suckled
him with honey out of the rock, and oil out of the flinty rock.
Deu 32:14 Curds from the herd, and milk from the flock, with fat of lambs, rams of Bashan and goats, with the
very finest of the wheat- and you drank foaming wine made from the blood of the grape.
Deu 32:15 "But Jeshurun grew fat, and kicked; you grew fat, stout, and sleek; then he forsook God who made
him and scoffed at the Rock of his salvation.
Deu 32:16 They stirred him to jealousy with strange gods; with abominations they provoked him to anger.
Deu 32:17 They sacrificed to demons that were no gods, to gods they had never known, to new gods that had
come recently, whom your fathers had never dreaded.
Deu 32:18 You were unmindful of the Rock that bore you, and you forgot the God who gave you birth.
Deu 32:19 "The LORD saw it and spurned them, because of the provocation of his sons and his daughters.
Deu 32:20 And he said, 'I will hide my face from them; I will see what their end will be, For they are a perverse
generation, children in whom is no faithfulness.
Deu 32:21 They have made me jealous with what is no god; they have provoked me to anger with their idols. So
I will make them jealous with those who are no people; I will provoke them to anger with a foolish nation.
Deu 32:22 For a fire is kindled by my anger, and it burns to the depths of Sheol, devours the earth and its
increase, and sets on fire the foundations of the mountains.
Deu 32:23 "' And I will heap disasters upon them; I will spend my arrows on them;
Deu 32:24 they shall be wasted with hunger, and devoured by plague and poisonous pestilence; I will send the
teeth of beasts against them, with the venom of things that crawl in the dust.
Deu 32:25 Outdoors the sword shall bereave, and indoors terror, for young man and woman alike, the nursing
child with the man of gray hairs.
Deu 32:26 I would have said, "I will cut them to pieces; I will wipe them from human memory,"
Deu 32:27 had I not feared provocation by the enemy, lest their adversaries should misunderstand, lest they
should say, "Our hand is triumphant, it was not the LORD who did all this."'
Deu 32:28 "For they are a nation void of counsel, and there is no understanding in them.
Deu 32:29 If they were wise, they would understand this; they would discern their latter end!
Deu 32:30 How could one have chased a thousand, and two have put ten thousand to flight, unless their Rock
had sold them, and the LORD had given them up?
Deu 32:31 For their rock is not as our Rock; our enemies are by themselves.
Deu 32:32 For their vine comes from the vine of Sodom and from the fields of Gomorrah; their grapes are
grapes of poison; their clusters are bitter;
Deu 32:33 their wine is the poison of serpents and the cruel venom of asps.
Deu 32:34 "' Is not this laid up in store with me, sealed up in my treasuries?
Deu 32:35 Vengeance is mine, and recompense, for the time when their foot shall slip; for the day of their
calamity is at hand, and their doom comes swiftly.'
Deu 32:36 For the LORD will vindicate his people and have compassion on his servants, when he sees that
their power is gone and there is none remaining, bond or free.
Deu 32:37 Then he will say, 'Where are their gods, the rock in which they took refuge,
Deu 32:38 who ate the fat of their sacrifices and drank the wine of their drink offering? Let them rise up and help
you; let them be your protection!
Deu 32:39 "'See now that I, even I, am he, and there is no god beside me; I kill and I make alive; I wound and I
heal; and there is none that can deliver out of my hand.
Deu 32:40 For I lift up my hand to heaven and swear, As I live forever,
Deu 32:41 if I sharpen my flashing sword and my hand takes hold on judgment, I will take vengeance on my
adversaries and will repay those who hate me.
Deu 32:42 I will make my arrows drunk with blood, and my sword shall devour flesh- with the blood of the slain
and the captives, from the long-haired heads of the enemy.'
Deu 32:43 "Rejoice with him, O heavens; bow down to him, all gods, for he avenges the blood of his children
and takes vengeance on his adversaries. He repays those who hate him and cleanses his people's land."
Deu 32:44 Moses came and recited all the words of this song in the hearing of the people, he and Joshua the
son of Nun.
Deu 32:45 And when Moses had finished speaking all these words to all Israel,
Deu 32:46 he said to them, "Take to heart all the words by which I am warning you today, that you may
command them to your children, that they may be careful to do all the words of this law.
Deu 32:47 For it is no empty word for you, but your very life, and by this word you shall live long in the land thatyou are going over the Jordan to possess."
Deu 32:48 That very day the LORD spoke to Moses,
Deu 32:49 "Go up this mountain of the Abarim, Mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, opposite Jericho, and
view the land of Canaan, which I am giving to the people of Israel for a possession.
Deu 32:50 And die on the mountain which you go up, and be gathered to your people, as Aaron your brother
died in Mount Hor and was gathered to his people,
Deu 32:51 because you broke faith with me in the midst of the people of Israel at the waters of Meribah-kadesh,
in the wilderness of Zin, and because you did not treat me as holy in the midst of the people of Israel.
Deu 32:52 For you shall see the land before you, but you shall not go there, into the land that I am giving to the
people of Israel."
Deu 33:1 This is the blessing with which Moses the man of God blessed the people of Israel before his death.
Deu 33:2 He said, "The LORD came from Sinai and dawned from Seir upon us; he shone forth from Mount
Paran; he came from the ten thousands of holy ones, with flaming fire at his right hand.
Deu 33:3 Yes, he loved his people, all his holy ones were in his hand; so they followed in your steps, receiving
direction from you,
Deu 33:4 when Moses commanded us a law, as a possession for the assembly of Jacob.
Deu 33:5 Thus the LORD became king in Jeshurun, when the heads of the people were gathered, all the tribes
of Israel together.
Deu 33:6 "Let Reuben live, and not die, but let his men be few."
Deu 33:7 And this he said of Judah: "Hear, O LORD, the voice of Judah, and bring him in to his people. With
your hands contend for him, and be a help against his adversaries."
Deu 33:8 And of Levi he said, "Give to Levi your Thummim, and your Urim to your godly one, whom you tested
at Massah, with whom you quarreled at the waters of Meribah;
Deu 33:9 who said of his father and mother, 'I regard them not'; he disowned his brothers and ignored his
children. For they observed your word and kept your covenant.
Deu 33:10 They shall teach Jacob your rules and Israel your law; they shall put incense before you and whole
burnt offerings on your altar.
Deu 33:11 Bless, O LORD, his substance, and accept the work of his hands; crush the loins of his adversaries,
of those who hate him, that they rise not again."
Deu 33:12 Of Benjamin he said, "The beloved of the LORD dwells in safety. The High God surrounds him all
day long, and dwells between his shoulders."
Deu 33:13 And of Joseph he said, "Blessed by the LORD be his land, with the choicest gifts of heaven above,
and of the deep that crouches beneath,
Deu 33:14 with the choicest fruits of the sun and the rich yield of the months,
Deu 33:15 with the finest produce of the ancient mountains and the abundance of the everlasting hills,
Deu 33:16 with the best gifts of the earth and its fullness and the favor of him who dwells in the bush. May these
rest on the head of Joseph, on the pate of him who is prince among his brothers.
Deu 33:17 A firstborn bull- he has majesty, and his horns are the horns of a wild ox; with them he shall gore the
peoples, all of them, to the ends of the earth; they are the ten thousands of Ephraim, and they are the thousands
of Manasseh."
Deu 33:18 And of Zebulun he said, "Rejoice, Zebulun, in your going out, and Issachar, in your tents.
Deu 33:19 They shall call peoples to their mountain; there they offer right sacrifices; for they draw from the
abundance of the seas and the hidden treasures of the sand."
Deu 33:20 And of Gad he said, "Blessed be he who enlarges Gad! Gad crouches like a lion; he tears off arm
and scalp.
Deu 33:21 He chose the best of the land for himself, for there a commander's portion was reserved; and he
came with the heads of the people, with Israel he executed the justice of the LORD, and his judgments for
Israel."
Deu 33:22 And of Dan he said, "Dan is a lion's cub that leaps from Bashan."
Deu 33:23 And of Naphtali he said, "O Naphtali, sated with favor, and full of the blessing of the LORD, possess
the lake and the south."
Deu 33:24 And of Asher he said, "Most blessed of sons be Asher; let him be the favorite of his brothers, and let
him dip his foot in oil.
Deu 33:25 Your bars shall be iron and bronze, and as your days, so shall your strength be.
Deu 33:26 "There is none like God, O Jeshurun, who rides through the heavens to your help, through the skies
in his majesty.
Deu 33:27 The eternal God is your dwelling place, and underneath are the everlasting arms. And he thrust out
the enemy before you and said, Destroy.
Deu 33:28 So Israel lived in safety, Jacob lived alone, in a land of grain and wine, whose heavens drop downdew.
Deu 33:29 Happy are you, O Israel! Who is like you, a people saved by the LORD, the shield of your help, and
the sword of your triumph! Your enemies shall come fawning to you, and you shall tread upon their backs."
Deu 34:1 Then Moses went up from the plains of Moab to Mount Nebo, to the top of Pisgah, which is opposite
Jericho. And the LORD showed him all the land, Gilead as far as Dan,
Deu 34:2 all Naphtali, the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, all the land of Judah as far as the western sea,
Deu 34:3 the Negeb, and the Plain, that is, the Valley of Jericho the city of palm trees, as far as Zoar.
Deu 34:4 And the LORD said to him, "This is the land of which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, 'I will
give it to your offspring.' I have let you see it with your eyes, but you shall not go over there."
Deu 34:5 So Moses the servant of the LORD died there in the land of Moab, according to the word of the LORD,
Deu 34:6 and he buried him in the valley in the land of Moab opposite Beth-peor; but no one knows the place of
his burial to this day.
Deu 34:7 Moses was 120 years old when he died. His eye was undimmed, and his vigor unabated.
Deu 34:8 And the people of Israel wept for Moses in the plains of Moab thirty days. Then the days of weeping
and mourning for Moses were ended.
Deu 34:9 And Joshua the son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom, for Moses had laid his hands on him. So
the people of Israel obeyed him and did as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Deu 34:10 And there has not arisen a prophet since in Israel like Moses, whom the LORD knew face to face,
Deu 34:11 none like him for all the signs and the wonders that the LORD sent him to do in the land of Egypt, to
Pharaoh and to all his servants and to all his land,
Deu 34:12 and for all the mighty power and all the great deeds of terror that Moses did in the sight of all Israel.
Jos 1:1 After the death of Moses the servant of the LORD, the LORD said to Joshua the son of Nun, Moses'
assistant,
Jos 1:2 "Moses my servant is dead. Now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, you and all this people, into the
land that I am giving to them, to the people of Israel.
Jos 1:3 Every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon I have given to you, just as I promised to Moses.
Jos 1:4 From the wilderness and this Lebanon as far as the great river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the
Hittites to the Great Sea toward the going down of the sun shall be your territory.
Jos 1:5 No man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life. Just as I was with Moses, so I will be
with you. I will not leave you or forsake you.
Jos 1:6 Be strong and courageous, for you shall cause this people to inherit the land that I swore to their fathers
to give them.
Jos 1:7 Only be strong and very courageous, being careful to do according to all the law that Moses my servant
commanded you. Do not turn from it to the right hand or to the left, that you may have good success wherever
you go.
Jos 1:8 This Book of the Law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, so
that you may be careful to do according to all that is written in it. For then you will make your way prosperous,
and then you will have good success.
Jos 1:9 Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not be frightened, and do not be dismayed,
for the LORD your God is with you wherever you go."
Jos 1:10 And Joshua commanded the officers of the people,
Jos 1:11 "Pass through the midst of the camp and command the people, 'Prepare your provisions, for within
three days you are to pass over this Jordan to go in to take possession of the land that the LORD your God is
giving you to possess.'"
Jos 1:12 And to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh Joshua said,
Jos 1:13 "Remember the word that Moses the servant of the LORD commanded you, saying, 'The LORD your
God is providing you a place of rest and will give you this land.'
Jos 1:14 Your wives, your little ones, and your livestock shall remain in the land that Moses gave you beyond
the Jordan, but all the men of valor among you shall pass over armed before your brothers and shall help them,
Jos 1:15 until the LORD gives rest to your brothers as he has to you, and they also take possession of the land
that the LORD your God is giving them. Then you shall return to the land of your possession and shall possess
it, the land that Moses the servant of the LORD gave you beyond the Jordan toward the sunrise."
Jos 1:16 And they answered Joshua, "All that you have commanded us we will do, and wherever you send us
we will go.
Jos 1:17 Just as we obeyed Moses in all things, so we will obey you. Only may the LORD your God be with you,
as he was with Moses!
Jos 1:18 Whoever rebels against your commandment and disobeys your words, whatever you command him,
shall be put to death. Only be strong and courageous."
Jos 2:1 And Joshua the son of Nun sent two men secretly from Shittim as spies, saying, "Go, view the land,especially Jericho." And they went and came into the house of a prostitute whose name was Rahab and lodged
there.
Jos 2:2 And it was told to the king of Jericho, "Behold, men of Israel have come here tonight to search out the
land."
Jos 2:3 Then the king of Jericho sent to Rahab, saying, "Bring out the men who have come to you, who entered
your house, for they have come to search out all the land."
Jos 2:4 But the woman had taken the two men and hidden them. And she said, "True, the men came to me, but
I did not know where they were from.
Jos 2:5 And when the gate was about to be closed at dark, the men went out. I do not know where the men
went. Pursue them quickly, for you will overtake them."
Jos 2:6 But she had brought them up to the roof and hid them with the stalks of flax that she had laid in order on
the roof.
Jos 2:7 So the men pursued after them on the way to the Jordan as far as the fords. And the gate was shut as
soon as the pursuers had gone out.
Jos 2:8 Before the men lay down, she came up to them on the roof
Jos 2:9 and said to the men, "I know that the LORD has given you the land, and that the fear of you has fallen
upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land melt away before you.
Jos 2:10 For we have heard how the LORD dried up the water of the Red Sea before you when you came out of
Egypt, and what you did to the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, to Sihon and Og, whom
you devoted to destruction.
Jos 2:11 And as soon as we heard it, our hearts melted, and there was no spirit left in any man because of you,
for the LORD your God, he is God in the heavens above and on the earth beneath.
Jos 2:12 Now then, please swear to me by the LORD that, as I have dealt kindly with you, you also will deal
kindly with my father's house, and give me a sure sign
Jos 2:13 that you will save alive my father and mother, my brothers and sisters, and all who belong to them, and
deliver our lives from death."
Jos 2:14 And the men said to her, "Our life for yours even to death! If you do not tell this business of ours, then
when the LORD gives us the land we will deal kindly and faithfully with you."
Jos 2:15 Then she let them down by a rope through the window, for her house was built into the city wall, so
that she lived in the wall.
Jos 2:16 And she said to them, "Go into the hills, or the pursuers will encounter you, and hide there three days
until the pursuers have returned. Then afterward you may go your way."
Jos 2:17 The men said to her, "We will be guiltless with respect to this oath of yours that you have made us
swear.
Jos 2:18 Behold, when we come into the land, you shall tie this scarlet cord in the window through which you let
us down, and you shall gather into your house your father and mother, your brothers, and all your father's
household.
Jos 2:19 Then if anyone goes out of the doors of your house into the street, his blood shall be on his own head,
and we shall be guiltless. But if a hand is laid on anyone who is with you in the house, his blood shall be on our
head.
Jos 2:20 But if you tell this business of ours, then we shall be guiltless with respect to your oath that you have
made us swear."
Jos 2:21 And she said, "According to your words, so be it." Then she sent them away, and they departed. And
she tied the scarlet cord in the window.
Jos 2:22 They departed and went into the hills and remained there three days until the pursuers returned, and
the pursuers searched all along the way and found nothing.
Jos 2:23 Then the two men returned. They came down from the hills and passed over and came to Joshua the
son of Nun, and they told him all that had happened to them.
Jos 2:24 And they said to Joshua, "Truly the LORD has given all the land into our hands. And also, all the
inhabitants of the land melt away because of us."
Jos 3:1 Then Joshua rose early in the morning and they set out from Shittim. And they came to the Jordan, he
and all the people of Israel, and lodged there before they passed over.
Jos 3:2 At the end of three days the officers went through the camp
Jos 3:3 and commanded the people, "As soon as you see the ark of the covenant of the LORD your God being
carried by the Levitical priests, then you shall set out from your place and follow it.
Jos 3:4 Yet there shall be a distance between you and it, about 2,000 cubits in length. Do not come near it, in
order that you may know the way you shall go, for you have not passed this way before."
Jos 3:5 Then Joshua said to the people, "Consecrate yourselves, for tomorrow the LORD will do wonders
among you."Jos 3:6 And Joshua said to the priests, "Take up the ark of the covenant and pass on before the people." So
they took up the ark of the covenant and went before the people.
Jos 3:7 The LORD said to Joshua, "Today I will begin to exalt you in the sight of all Israel, that they may know
that, as I was with Moses, so I will be with you.
Jos 3:8 And as for you, command the priests who bear the ark of the covenant, 'When you come to the brink of
the waters of the Jordan, you shall stand still in the Jordan.'"
Jos 3:9 And Joshua said to the people of Israel, "Come here and listen to the words of the LORD your God."
Jos 3:10 And Joshua said, "Here is how you shall know that the living God is among you and that he will without
fail drive out from before you the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Hivites, the Perizzites, the Girgashites, the
Amorites, and the Jebusites.
Jos 3:11 Behold, the ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth is passing over before you into the Jordan.
Jos 3:12 Now therefore take twelve men from the tribes of Israel, from each tribe a man.
Jos 3:13 And when the soles of the feet of the priests bearing the ark of the LORD, the Lord of all the earth,
shall rest in the waters of the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan shall be cut off from flowing, and the waters
coming down from above shall stand in one heap."
Jos 3:14 So when the people set out from their tents to pass over the Jordan with the priests bearing the ark of
the covenant before the people,
Jos 3:15 and as soon as those bearing the ark had come as far as the Jordan, and the feet of the priests
bearing the ark were dipped in the brink of the water (now the Jordan overflows all its banks throughout the time
of harvest),
Jos 3:16 the waters coming down from above stood and rose up in a heap very far away, at Adam, the city that
is beside Zarethan, and those flowing down toward the Sea of the Arabah, the Salt Sea, were completely cut off.
And the people passed over opposite Jericho.
Jos 3:17 Now the priests bearing the ark of the covenant of the LORD stood firmly on dry ground in the midst of
the Jordan, and all Israel was passing over on dry ground until all the nation finished passing over the Jordan.
Jos 4:1 When all the nation had finished passing over the Jordan, the LORD said to Joshua,
Jos 4:2 "Take twelve men from the people, from each tribe a man,
Jos 4:3 and command them, saying, 'Take twelve stones from here out of the midst of the Jordan, from the very
place where the priests' feet stood firmly, and bring them over with you and lay them down in the place where
you lodge tonight.'"
Jos 4:4 Then Joshua called the twelve men from the people of Israel, whom he had appointed, a man from each
tribe.
Jos 4:5 And Joshua said to them, "Pass on before the ark of the LORD your God into the midst of the Jordan,
and take up each of you a stone upon his shoulder, according to the number of the tribes of the people of Israel,
Jos 4:6 that this may be a sign among you. When your children ask in time to come, 'What do those stones
mean to you?'
Jos 4:7 then you shall tell them that the waters of the Jordan were cut off before the ark of the covenant of the
LORD. When it passed over the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan were cut off. So these stones shall be to the
people of Israel a memorial forever."
Jos 4:8 And the people of Israel did just as Joshua commanded and took up twelve stones out of the midst of
the Jordan, according to the number of the tribes of the people of Israel, just as the LORD told Joshua. And they
carried them over with them to the place where they lodged and laid them down there.
Jos 4:9 And Joshua set up twelve stones in the midst of the Jordan, in the place where the feet of the priests
bearing the ark of the covenant had stood; and they are there to this day.
Jos 4:10 For the priests bearing the ark stood in the midst of the Jordan until everything was finished that the
LORD commanded Joshua to tell the people, according to all that Moses had commanded Joshua. The people
passed over in haste.
Jos 4:11 And when all the people had finished passing over, the ark of the LORD and the priests passed over
before the people.
Jos 4:12 The sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh passed over armed before
the people of Israel, as Moses had told them.
Jos 4:13 About 40,000 ready for war passed over before the LORD for battle, to the plains of Jericho.
Jos 4:14 On that day the LORD exalted Joshua in the sight of all Israel, and they stood in awe of him just as
they had stood in awe of Moses, all the days of his life.
Jos 4:15 And the LORD said to Joshua,
Jos 4:16 "Command the priests bearing the ark of the testimony to come up out of the Jordan."
Jos 4:17 So Joshua commanded the priests, "Come up out of the Jordan."
Jos 4:18 And when the priests bearing the ark of the covenant of the LORD came up from the midst of the
Jordan, and the soles of the priests' feet were lifted up on dry ground, the waters of the Jordan returned to theirplace and overflowed all its banks, as before.
Jos 4:19 The people came up out of the Jordan on the tenth day of the first month, and they encamped at Gilgal
on the east border of Jericho.
Jos 4:20 And those twelve stones, which they took out of the Jordan, Joshua set up at Gilgal.
Jos 4:21 And he said to the people of Israel, "When your children ask their fathers in times to come, 'What do
these stones mean?'
Jos 4:22 then you shall let your children know, 'Israel passed over this Jordan on dry ground.'
Jos 4:23 For the LORD your God dried up the waters of the Jordan for you until you passed over, as the LORD
your God did to the Red Sea, which he dried up for us until we passed over,
Jos 4:24 so that all the peoples of the earth may know that the hand of the LORD is mighty, that you may fear
the LORD your God forever."
Jos 5:1 As soon as all the kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan to the west, and all the kings of
the Canaanites who were by the sea, heard that the LORD had dried up the waters of the Jordan for the people
of Israel until they had crossed over, their hearts melted and there was no longer any spirit in them because of
the people of Israel.
Jos 5:2 At that time the LORD said to Joshua, "Make flint knives and circumcise the sons of Israel a second
time."
Jos 5:3 So Joshua made flint knives and circumcised the sons of Israel at Gibeath-haaraloth.
Jos 5:4 And this is the reason why Joshua circumcised them: all the males of the people who came out of
Egypt, all the men of war, had died in the wilderness on the way after they had come out of Egypt.
Jos 5:5 Though all the people who came out had been circumcised, yet all the people who were born on the
way in the wilderness after they had come out of Egypt had not been circumcised.
Jos 5:6 For the people of Israel walked forty years in the wilderness, until all the nation, the men of war who
came out of Egypt, perished, because they did not obey the voice of the LORD; the LORD swore to them that he
would not let them see the land that the LORD had sworn to their fathers to give to us, a land flowing with milk
and honey.
Jos 5:7 So it was their children, whom he raised up in their place, that Joshua circumcised. For they were
uncircumcised, because they had not been circumcised on the way.
Jos 5:8 When the circumcising of the whole nation was finished, they remained in their places in the camp until
they were healed.
Jos 5:9 And the LORD said to Joshua, "Today I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt from you." And so the
name of that place is called Gilgal to this day.
Jos 5:10 While the people of Israel were encamped at Gilgal, they kept the Passover on the fourteenth day of
the month in the evening on the plains of Jericho.
Jos 5:11 And the day after the Passover, on that very day, they ate of the produce of the land, unleavened
cakes and parched grain.
Jos 5:12 And the manna ceased the day after they ate of the produce of the land. And there was no longer
manna for the people of Israel, but they ate of the fruit of the land of Canaan that year.
Jos 5:13 When Joshua was by Jericho, he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, a man was standing
before him with his drawn sword in his hand. And Joshua went to him and said to him, "Are you for us, or for our
adversaries?"
Jos 5:14 And he said, "No; but I am the commander of the army of the LORD. Now I have come." And Joshua
fell on his face to the earth and worshiped and said to him, "What does my lord say to his servant?"
Jos 5:15 And the commander of the LORD's army said to Joshua, "Take off your sandals from your feet, for the
place where you are standing is holy." And Joshua did so.
Jos 6:1 Now Jericho was shut up inside and outside because of the people of Israel. None went out, and none
came in.
Jos 6:2 And the LORD said to Joshua, "See, I have given Jericho into your hand, with its king and mighty men
of valor.
Jos 6:3 You shall march around the city, all the men of war going around the city once. Thus shall you do for six
days.
Jos 6:4 Seven priests shall bear seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark. On the seventh day you shall
march around the city seven times, and the priests shall blow the trumpets.
Jos 6:5 And when they make a long blast with the ram's horn, when you hear the sound of the trumpet, then all
the people shall shout with a great shout, and the wall of the city will fall down flat, and the people shall go up,
everyone straight before him."
Jos 6:6 So Joshua the son of Nun called the priests and said to them, "Take up the ark of the covenant and let
seven priests bear seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark of the LORD."
Jos 6:7 And he said to the people, "Go forward. March around the city and let the armed men pass on beforethe ark of the LORD."
Jos 6:8 And just as Joshua had commanded the people, the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of rams'
horns before the LORD went forward, blowing the trumpets, with the ark of the covenant of the LORD following
them.
Jos 6:9 The armed men were walking before the priests who were blowing the trumpets, and the rear guard was
walking after the ark, while the trumpets blew continually.
Jos 6:10 But Joshua commanded the people, "You shall not shout or make your voice heard, neither shall any
word go out of your mouth, until the day I tell you to shout. Then you shall shout."
Jos 6:11 So he caused the ark of the LORD to circle the city, going about it once. And they came into the camp
and spent the night in the camp.
Jos 6:12 Then Joshua rose early in the morning, and the priests took up the ark of the LORD.
Jos 6:13 And the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark of the LORD walked
on, and they blew the trumpets continually. And the armed men were walking before them, and the rear guard
was walking after the ark of the LORD, while the trumpets blew continually.
Jos 6:14 And the second day they marched around the city once, and returned into the camp. So they did for six
days.
Jos 6:15 On the seventh day they rose early, at the dawn of day, and marched around the city in the same
manner seven times. It was only on that day that they marched around the city seven times.
Jos 6:16 And at the seventh time, when the priests had blown the trumpets, Joshua said to the people, "Shout,
for the LORD has given you the city.
Jos 6:17 And the city and all that is within it shall be devoted to the LORD for destruction. Only Rahab the
prostitute and all who are with her in her house shall live, because she hid the messengers whom we sent.
Jos 6:18 But you, keep yourselves from the things devoted to destruction, lest when you have devoted them you
take any of the devoted things and make the camp of Israel a thing for destruction and bring trouble upon it.
Jos 6:19 But all silver and gold, and every vessel of bronze and iron, are holy to the LORD; they shall go into
the treasury of the LORD."
Jos 6:20 So the people shouted, and the trumpets were blown. As soon as the people heard the sound of the
trumpet, the people shouted a great shout, and the wall fell down flat, so that the people went up into the city,
every man straight before him, and they captured the city.
Jos 6:21 Then they devoted all in the city to destruction, both men and women, young and old, oxen, sheep,
and donkeys, with the edge of the sword.
Jos 6:22 But to the two men who had spied out the land, Joshua said, "Go into the prostitute's house and bring
out from there the woman and all who belong to her, as you swore to her."
Jos 6:23 So the young men who had been spies went in and brought out Rahab and her father and mother and
brothers and all who belonged to her. And they brought all her relatives and put them outside the camp of Israel.
Jos 6:24 And they burned the city with fire, and everything in it. Only the silver and gold, and the vessels of
bronze and of iron, they put into the treasury of the house of the LORD.
Jos 6:25 But Rahab the prostitute and her father's household and all who belonged to her, Joshua saved alive.
And she has lived in Israel to this day, because she hid the messengers whom Joshua sent to spy out Jericho.
Jos 6:26 Joshua laid an oath on them at that time, saying, "Cursed before the LORD be the man who rises up
and rebuilds this city, Jericho. "At the cost of his firstborn shall he lay its foundation, and at the cost of his
youngest son shall he set up its gates."
Jos 6:27 So the LORD was with Joshua, and his fame was in all the land.
Jos 7:1 But the people of Israel broke faith in regard to the devoted things, for Achan the son of Carmi, son of
Zabdi, son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, took some of the devoted things. And the anger of the LORD burned
against the people of Israel.
Jos 7:2 Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is near Beth-aven, east of Bethel, and said to them, "Go up
and spy out the land." And the men went up and spied out Ai.
Jos 7:3 And they returned to Joshua and said to him, "Do not have all the people go up, but let about two or
three thousand men go up and attack Ai. Do not make the whole people toil up there, for they are few."
Jos 7:4 So about 3,000 men went up there from the people. And they fled before the men of Ai,
Jos 7:5 and the men of Ai killed about thirty-six of their men and chased them before the gate as far as
Shebarim and struck them at the descent. And the hearts of the people melted and became as water.
Jos 7:6 Then Joshua tore his clothes and fell to the earth on his face before the ark of the LORD until the
evening, he and the elders of Israel. And they put dust on their heads.
Jos 7:7 And Joshua said, "Alas, O Lord GOD, why have you brought this people over the Jordan at all, to give
us into the hands of the Amorites, to destroy us? Would that we had been content to dwell beyond the Jordan!
Jos 7:8 O Lord, what can I say, when Israel has turned their backs before their enemies!
Jos 7:9 For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land will hear of it and will surround us and cut off ourname from the earth. And what will you do for your great name?"
Jos 7:10 The LORD said to Joshua, "Get up! Why have you fallen on your face?
Jos 7:11 Israel has sinned; they have transgressed my covenant that I commanded them; they have taken
some of the devoted things; they have stolen and lied and put them among their own belongings.
Jos 7:12 Therefore the people of Israel cannot stand before their enemies. They turn their backs before their
enemies, because they have become devoted for destruction. I will be with you no more, unless you destroy the
devoted things from among you.
Jos 7:13 Get up! Consecrate the people and say, 'Consecrate yourselves for tomorrow; for thus says the LORD,
God of Israel, "There are devoted things in your midst, O Israel. You cannot stand before your enemies until you
take away the devoted things from among you."
Jos 7:14 In the morning therefore you shall be brought near by your tribes. And the tribe that the LORD takes by
lot shall come near by clans. And the clan that the LORD takes shall come near by households. And the
household that the LORD takes shall come near man by man.
Jos 7:15 And he who is taken with the devoted things shall be burned with fire, he and all that he has, because
he has transgressed the covenant of the LORD, and because he has done an outrageous thing in Israel.'"
Jos 7:16 So Joshua rose early in the morning and brought Israel near tribe by tribe, and the tribe of Judah was
taken.
Jos 7:17 And he brought near the clans of Judah, and the clan of the Zerahites was taken. And he brought near
the clan of the Zerahites man by man, and Zabdi was taken.
Jos 7:18 And he brought near his household man by man, and Achan the son of Carmi, son of Zabdi, son of
Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, was taken.
Jos 7:19 Then Joshua said to Achan, "My son, give glory to the LORD God of Israel and give praise to him. And
tell me now what you have done; do not hide it from me."
Jos 7:20 And Achan answered Joshua, "Truly I have sinned against the LORD God of Israel, and this is what I
did:
Jos 7:21 when I saw among the spoil a beautiful cloak from Shinar, and 200 shekels of silver, and a bar of gold
weighing 50 shekels, then I coveted them and took them. And see, they are hidden in the earth inside my tent,
with the silver underneath."
Jos 7:22 So Joshua sent messengers, and they ran to the tent; and behold, it was hidden in his tent with the
silver underneath.
Jos 7:23 And they took them out of the tent and brought them to Joshua and to all the people of Israel. And they
laid them down before the LORD.
Jos 7:24 And Joshua and all Israel with him took Achan the son of Zerah, and the silver and the cloak and the
bar of gold, and his sons and daughters and his oxen and donkeys and sheep and his tent and all that he had.
And they brought them up to the Valley of Achor.
Jos 7:25 And Joshua said, "Why did you bring trouble on us? The LORD brings trouble on you today." And all
Israel stoned him with stones. They burned them with fire and stoned them with stones.
Jos 7:26 And they raised over him a great heap of stones that remains to this day. Then the LORD turned from
his burning anger. Therefore, to this day the name of that place is called the Valley of Achor.
Jos 8:1 And the LORD said to Joshua, "Do not fear and do not be dismayed. Take all the fighting men with you,
and arise, go up to Ai. See, I have given into your hand the king of Ai, and his people, his city, and his land.
Jos 8:2 And you shall do to Ai and its king as you did to Jericho and its king. Only its spoil and its livestock you
shall take as plunder for yourselves. Lay an ambush against the city, behind it."
Jos 8:3 So Joshua and all the fighting men arose to go up to Ai. And Joshua chose 30,000 mighty men of valor
and sent them out by night.
Jos 8:4 And he commanded them, "Behold, you shall lie in ambush against the city, behind it. Do not go very far
from the city, but all of you remain ready.
Jos 8:5 And I and all the people who are with me will approach the city. And when they come out against us just
as before, we shall flee before them.
Jos 8:6 And they will come out after us, until we have drawn them away from the city. For they will say, 'They
are fleeing from us, just as before.' So we will flee before them.
Jos 8:7 Then you shall rise up from the ambush and seize the city, for the LORD your God will give it into your
hand.
Jos 8:8 And as soon as you have taken the city, you shall set the city on fire. You shall do according to the word
of the Lord. See, I have commanded you."
Jos 8:9 So Joshua sent them out. And they went to the place of ambush and lay between Bethel and Ai, to the
west of Ai, but Joshua spent that night among the people.
Jos 8:10 Joshua arose early in the morning and mustered the people and went up, he and the elders of Israel,
before the people to Ai.Jos 8:11 And all the fighting men who were with him went up and drew near before the city and encamped on
the north side of Ai, with a ravine between them and Ai.
Jos 8:12 He took about 5,000 men and set them in ambush between Bethel and Ai, to the west of the city.
Jos 8:13 So they stationed the forces, the main encampment that was north of the city and its rear guard west of
the city. But Joshua spent that night in the valley.
Jos 8:14 And as soon as the king of Ai saw this, he and all his people, the men of the city, hurried and went out
early to the appointed place toward the Arabah to meet Israel in battle. But he did not know that there was an
ambush against him behind the city.
Jos 8:15 And Joshua and all Israel pretended to be beaten before them and fled in the direction of the
wilderness.
Jos 8:16 So all the people who were in the city were called together to pursue them, and as they pursued
Joshua they were drawn away from the city.
Jos 8:17 Not a man was left in Ai or Bethel who did not go out after Israel. They left the city open and pursued
Israel.
Jos 8:18 Then the LORD said to Joshua, "Stretch out the javelin that is in your hand toward Ai, for I will give it
into your hand." And Joshua stretched out the javelin that was in his hand toward the city.
Jos 8:19 And the men in the ambush rose quickly out of their place, and as soon as he had stretched out his
hand, they ran and entered the city and captured it. And they hurried to set the city on fire.
Jos 8:20 So when the men of Ai looked back, behold, the smoke of the city went up to heaven, and they had no
power to flee this way or that, for the people who fled to the wilderness turned back against the pursuers.
Jos 8:21 And when Joshua and all Israel saw that the ambush had captured the city, and that the smoke of the
city went up, then they turned back and struck down the men of Ai.
Jos 8:22 And the others came out from the city against them, so they were in the midst of Israel, some on this
side, and some on that side. And Israel struck them down, until there was left none that survived or escaped.
Jos 8:23 But the king of Ai they took alive, and brought him near to Joshua.
Jos 8:24 When Israel had finished killing all the inhabitants of Ai in the open wilderness where they pursued
them, and all of them to the very last had fallen by the edge of the sword, all Israel returned to Ai and struck it
down with the edge of the sword.
Jos 8:25 And all who fell that day, both men and women, were 12,000, all the people of Ai.
Jos 8:26 But Joshua did not draw back his hand with which he stretched out the javelin until he had devoted all
the inhabitants of Ai to destruction.
Jos 8:27 Only the livestock and the spoil of that city Israel took as their plunder, according to the word of the
LORD that he commanded Joshua.
Jos 8:28 So Joshua burned Ai and made it forever a heap of ruins, as it is to this day.
Jos 8:29 And he hanged the king of Ai on a tree until evening. And at sunset Joshua commanded, and they took
his body down from the tree and threw it at the entrance of the gate of the city and raised over it a great heap of
stones, which stands there to this day.
Jos 8:30 At that time Joshua built an altar to the LORD, the God of Israel, on Mount Ebal,
Jos 8:31 just as Moses the servant of the LORD had commanded the people of Israel, as it is written in the
Book of the Law of Moses, "an altar of uncut stones, upon which no man has wielded an iron tool." And they
offered on it burnt offerings to the LORD and sacrificed peace offerings.
Jos 8:32 And there, in the presence of the people of Israel, he wrote on the stones a copy of the law of Moses,
which he had written.
Jos 8:33 And all Israel, sojourner as well as native born, with their elders and officers and their judges, stood on
opposite sides of the ark before the Levitical priests who carried the ark of the covenant of the LORD, half of
them in front of Mount Gerizim and half of them in front of Mount Ebal, just as Moses the servant of the LORD
had commanded at the first, to bless the people of Israel.
Jos 8:34 And afterward he read all the words of the law, the blessing and the curse, according to all that is
written in the Book of the Law.
Jos 8:35 There was not a word of all that Moses commanded that Joshua did not read before all the assembly
of Israel, and the women, and the little ones, and the sojourners who lived among them.
Jos 9:1 As soon as all the kings who were beyond the Jordan in the hill country and in the lowland all along the
coast of the Great Sea toward Lebanon, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites,
and the Jebusites, heard of this,
Jos 9:2 they gathered together as one to fight against Joshua and Israel.
Jos 9:3 But when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Joshua had done to Jericho and to Ai,
Jos 9:4 they on their part acted with cunning and went and made ready provisions and took worn-out sacks for
their donkeys, and wineskins, worn-out and torn and mended,
Jos 9:5 with worn-out, patched sandals on their feet, and worn-out clothes. And all their provisions were dry andcrumbly.
Jos 9:6 And they went to Joshua in the camp at Gilgal and said to him and to the men of Israel, "We have come
from a distant country, so now make a covenant with us."
Jos 9:7 But the men of Israel said to the Hivites, "Perhaps you live among us; then how can we make a
covenant with you?"
Jos 9:8 They said to Joshua, "We are your servants." And Joshua said to them, "Who are you? And where do
you come from?"
Jos 9:9 They said to him, "From a very distant country your servants have come, because of the name of the
LORD your God. For we have heard a report of him, and all that he did in Egypt,
Jos 9:10 and all that he did to the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, to Sihon the king of
Heshbon, and to Og king of Bashan, who lived in Ashtaroth.
Jos 9:11 So our elders and all the inhabitants of our country said to us, 'Take provisions in your hand for the
journey and go to meet them and say to them, "We are your servants. Come now, make a covenant with us."'
Jos 9:12 Here is our bread. It was still warm when we took it from our houses as our food for the journey on the
day we set out to come to you, but now, behold, it is dry and crumbly.
Jos 9:13 These wineskins were new when we filled them, and behold, they have burst. And these garments and
sandals of ours are worn out from the very long journey."
Jos 9:14 So the men took some of their provisions, but did not ask counsel from the LORD.
Jos 9:15 And Joshua made peace with them and made a covenant with them, to let them live, and the leaders
of the congregation swore to them.
Jos 9:16 At the end of three days after they had made a covenant with them, they heard that they were their
neighbors and that they lived among them.
Jos 9:17 And the people of Israel set out and reached their cities on the third day. Now their cities were Gibeon,
Chephirah, Beeroth, and Kiriath-jearim.
Jos 9:18 But the people of Israel did not attack them, because the leaders of the congregation had sworn to
them by the LORD, the God of Israel. Then all the congregation murmured against the leaders.
Jos 9:19 But all the leaders said to all the congregation, "We have sworn to them by the LORD, the God of
Israel, and now we may not touch them.
Jos 9:20 This we will do to them: let them live, lest wrath be upon us, because of the oath that we swore to
them."
Jos 9:21 And the leaders said to them, "Let them live." So they became cutters of wood and drawers of water
for all the congregation, just as the leaders had said of them.
Jos 9:22 Joshua summoned them, and he said to them, "Why did you deceive us, saying, 'We are very far from
you,' when you dwell among us?
Jos 9:23 Now therefore you are cursed, and some of you shall never be anything but servants, cutters of wood
and drawers of water for the house of my God."
Jos 9:24 They answered Joshua, "Because it was told to your servants for a certainty that the LORD your God
had commanded his servant Moses to give you all the land and to destroy all the inhabitants of the land from
before you- so we feared greatly for our lives because of you and did this thing.
Jos 9:25 And now, behold, we are in your hand. Whatever seems good and right in your sight to do to us, do it."
Jos 9:26 So he did this to them and delivered them out of the hand of the people of Israel, and they did not kill
them.
Jos 9:27 But Joshua made them that day cutters of wood and drawers of water for the congregation and for the
altar of the LORD, to this day, in the place that he should choose.
Jos 10:1 As soon as Adoni-zedek, king of Jerusalem, heard how Joshua had captured Ai and had devoted it to
destruction, doing to Ai and its king as he had done to Jericho and its king, and how the inhabitants of Gibeon
had made peace with Israel and were among them,
Jos 10:2 he feared greatly, because Gibeon was a great city, like one of the royal cities, and because it was
greater than Ai, and all its men were warriors.
Jos 10:3 So Adoni-zedek king of Jerusalem sent to Hoham king of Hebron, to Piram king of Jarmuth, to Japhia
king of Lachish, and to Debir king of Eglon, saying,
Jos 10:4 "Come up to me and help me, and let us strike Gibeon. For it has made peace with Joshua and with
the people of Israel."
Jos 10:5 Then the five kings of the Amorites, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the
king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon, gathered their forces and went up with all their armies and encamped
against Gibeon and made war against it.
Jos 10:6 And the men of Gibeon sent to Joshua at the camp in Gilgal, saying, "Do not relax your hand from your
servants. Come up to us quickly and save us and help us, for all the kings of the Amorites who dwell in the hill
country are gathered against us."Jos 10:7 So Joshua went up from Gilgal, he and all the people of war with him, and all the mighty men of valor.
Jos 10:8 And the LORD said to Joshua, "Do not fear them, for I have given them into your hands. Not a man of
them shall stand before you."
Jos 10:9 So Joshua came upon them suddenly, having marched up all night from Gilgal.
Jos 10:10 And the LORD threw them into a panic before Israel, who struck them with a great blow at Gibeon
and chased them by the way of the ascent of Beth-horon and struck them as far as Azekah and Makkedah.
Jos 10:11 And as they fled before Israel, while they were going down the ascent of Beth-horon, the LORD threw
down large stones from heaven on them as far as Azekah, and they died. There were more who died because of
the hailstones than the sons of Israel killed with the sword.
Jos 10:12 At that time Joshua spoke to the LORD in the day when the LORD gave the Amorites over to the
sons of Israel, and he said in the sight of Israel, "Sun, stand still at Gibeon, and moon, in the Valley of Aijalon."
Jos 10:13 And the sun stood still, and the moon stopped, until the nation took vengeance on their enemies. Is
this not written in the Book of Jashar? The sun stopped in the midst of heaven and did not hurry to set for about
a whole day.
Jos 10:14 There has been no day like it before or since, when the LORD obeyed the voice of a man, for the
LORD fought for Israel.
Jos 10:15 So Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp at Gilgal.
Jos 10:16 These five kings fled and hid themselves in the cave at Makkedah.
Jos 10:17 And it was told to Joshua, "The five kings have been found, hidden in the cave at Makkedah."
Jos 10:18 And Joshua said, "Roll large stones against the mouth of the cave and set men by it to guard them,
Jos 10:19 but do not stay there yourselves. Pursue your enemies; attack their rear guard. Do not let them enter
their cities, for the LORD your God has given them into your hand."
Jos 10:20 When Joshua and the sons of Israel had finished striking them with a great blow until they were wiped
out, and when the remnant that remained of them had entered into the fortified cities,
Jos 10:21 then all the people returned safe to Joshua in the camp at Makkedah. Not a man moved his tongue
against any of the people of Israel.
Jos 10:22 Then Joshua said, "Open the mouth of the cave and bring those five kings out to me from the cave."
Jos 10:23 And they did so, and brought those five kings out to him from the cave, the king of Jerusalem, the
king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon.
Jos 10:24 And when they brought those kings out to Joshua, Joshua summoned all the men of Israel and said
to the chiefs of the men of war who had gone with him, "Come near; put your feet on the necks of these kings."
Then they came near and put their feet on their necks.
Jos 10:25 And Joshua said to them, "Do not be afraid or dismayed; be strong and courageous. For thus the
LORD will do to all your enemies against whom you fight."
Jos 10:26 And afterward Joshua struck them and put them to death, and he hanged them on five trees. And
they hung on the trees until evening.
Jos 10:27 But at the time of the going down of the sun, Joshua commanded, and they took them down from the
trees and threw them into the cave where they had hidden themselves, and they set large stones against the
mouth of the cave, which remain to this very day.
Jos 10:28 As for Makkedah, Joshua captured it on that day and struck it, and its king, with the edge of the
sword. He devoted to destruction every person in it; he left none remaining. And he did to the king of Makkedah
just as he had done to the king of Jericho.
Jos 10:29 Then Joshua and all Israel with him passed on from Makkedah to Libnah and fought against Libnah.
Jos 10:30 And the LORD gave it also and its king into the hand of Israel. And he struck it with the edge of the
sword, and every person in it; he left none remaining in it. And he did to its king as he had done to the king of
Jericho.
Jos 10:31 Then Joshua and all Israel with him passed on from Libnah to Lachish and laid siege to it and fought
against it.
Jos 10:32 And the LORD gave Lachish into the hand of Israel, and he captured it on the second day and struck
it with the edge of the sword, and every person in it, as he had done to Libnah.
Jos 10:33 Then Horam king of Gezer came up to help Lachish. And Joshua struck him and his people, until he
left none remaining.
Jos 10:34 Then Joshua and all Israel with him passed on from Lachish to Eglon. And they laid siege to it and
fought against it.
Jos 10:35 And they captured it on that day, and struck it with the edge of the sword. And he devoted every
person in it to destruction that day, as he had done to Lachish.
Jos 10:36 Then Joshua and all Israel with him went up from Eglon to Hebron. And they fought against it
Jos 10:37 and captured it and struck it with the edge of the sword, and its king and its towns, and every person
in it. He left none remaining, as he had done to Eglon, and devoted it to destruction and every person in it.Jos 10:38 Then Joshua and all Israel with him turned back to Debir and fought against it
Jos 10:39 and he captured it with its king and all its towns. And they struck them with the edge of the sword and
devoted to destruction every person in it; he left none remaining. Just as he had done to Hebron and to Libnah
and its king, so he did to Debir and to its king.
Jos 10:40 So Joshua struck the whole land, the hill country and the Negeb and the lowland and the slopes, and
all their kings. He left none remaining, but devoted to destruction all that breathed, just as the LORD God of
Israel commanded.
Jos 10:41 And Joshua struck them from Kadesh-barnea as far as Gaza, and all the country of Goshen, as far as
Gibeon.
Jos 10:42 And Joshua captured all these kings and their land at one time, because the LORD God of Israel
fought for Israel.
Jos 10:43 Then Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp at Gilgal.
Jos 11:1 When Jabin, king of Hazor, heard of this, he sent to Jobab king of Madon, and to the king of Shimron,
and to the king of Achshaph,
Jos 11:2 and to the kings who were in the northern hill country, and in the Arabah south of Chinneroth, and in
the lowland, and in Naphoth-dor on the west,
Jos 11:3 to the Canaanites in the east and the west, the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, and the Jebusites
in the hill country, and the Hivites under Hermon in the land of Mizpah.
Jos 11:4 And they came out with all their troops, a great horde, in number like the sand that is on the seashore,
with very many horses and chariots.
Jos 11:5 And all these kings joined their forces and came and encamped together at the waters of Merom to
fight with Israel.
Jos 11:6 And the LORD said to Joshua, "Do not be afraid of them, for tomorrow at this time I will give over all of
them, slain, to Israel. You shall hamstring their horses and burn their chariots with fire."
Jos 11:7 So Joshua and all his warriors came suddenly against them by the waters of Merom and fell upon
them.
Jos 11:8 And the LORD gave them into the hand of Israel, who struck them and chased them as far as Great
Sidon and Misrephoth-maim, and eastward as far as the Valley of Mizpeh. And they struck them until he left
none remaining.
Jos 11:9 And Joshua did to them just as the LORD said to him: he hamstrung their horses and burned their
chariots with fire.
Jos 11:10 And Joshua turned back at that time and captured Hazor and struck its king with the sword, for Hazor
formerly was the head of all those kingdoms.
Jos 11:11 And they struck with the sword all who were in it, devoting them to destruction; there was none left
that breathed. And he burned Hazor with fire.
Jos 11:12 And all the cities of those kings, and all their kings, Joshua captured, and struck them with the edge
of the sword, devoting them to destruction, just as Moses the servant of the LORD had commanded.
Jos 11:13 But none of the cities that stood on mounds did Israel burn, except Hazor alone; that Joshua burned.
Jos 11:14 And all the spoil of these cities and the livestock, the people of Israel took for their plunder. But every
man they struck with the edge of the sword until they had destroyed them, and they did not leave any who
breathed.
Jos 11:15 Just as the LORD had commanded Moses his servant, so Moses commanded Joshua, and so
Joshua did. He left nothing undone of all that the LORD had commanded Moses.
Jos 11:16 So Joshua took all that land, the hill country and all the Negeb and all the land of Goshen and the
lowland and the Arabah and the hill country of Israel and its lowland
Jos 11:17 from Mount Halak, which rises toward Seir, as far as Baal-gad in the Valley of Lebanon below Mount
Hermon. And he captured all their kings and struck them and put them to death.
Jos 11:18 Joshua made war a long time with all those kings.
Jos 11:19 There was not a city that made peace with the people of Israel except the Hivites, the inhabitants of
Gibeon. They took them all in battle.
Jos 11:20 For it was the LORD's doing to harden their hearts that they should come against Israel in battle, in
order that they should be devoted to destruction and should receive no mercy but be destroyed, just as the
LORD commanded Moses.
Jos 11:21 And Joshua came at that time and cut off the Anakim from the hill country, from Hebron, from Debir,
from Anab, and from all the hill country of Judah, and from all the hill country of Israel. Joshua devoted them to
destruction with their cities.
Jos 11:22 There was none of the Anakim left in the land of the people of Israel. Only in Gaza, in Gath, and in
Ashdod did some remain.
Jos 11:23 So Joshua took the whole land, according to all that the LORD had spoken to Moses. And Joshuagave it for an inheritance to Israel according to their tribal allotments. And the land had rest from war.
Jos 12:1 Now these are the kings of the land whom the people of Israel defeated and took possession of their
land beyond the Jordan toward the sunrise, from the Valley of the Arnon to Mount Hermon, with all the Arabah
eastward:
Jos 12:2 Sihon king of the Amorites who lived at Heshbon and ruled from Aroer, which is on the edge of the
Valley of the Arnon, and from the middle of the valley as far as the river Jabbok, the boundary of the Ammonites,
that is, half of Gilead,
Jos 12:3 and the Arabah to the Sea of Chinneroth eastward, and in the direction of Beth-jeshimoth, to the Sea
of the Arabah, the Salt Sea, southward to the foot of the slopes of Pisgah;
Jos 12:4 and Og king of Bashan, one of the remnant of the Rephaim, who lived at Ashtaroth and at Edrei
Jos 12:5 and ruled over Mount Hermon and Salecah and all Bashan to the boundary of the Geshurites and the
Maacathites, and over half of Gilead to the boundary of Sihon king of Heshbon.
Jos 12:6 Moses, the servant of the LORD, and the people of Israel defeated them. And Moses the servant of the
LORD gave their land for a possession to the Reubenites and the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh.
Jos 12:7 And these are the kings of the land whom Joshua and the people of Israel defeated on the west side of
the Jordan, from Baal-gad in the Valley of Lebanon to Mount Halak, that rises toward Seir (and Joshua gave
their land to the tribes of Israel as a possession according to their allotments,
Jos 12:8 in the hill country, in the lowland, in the Arabah, in the slopes, in the wilderness, and in the Negeb, the
land of the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites):
Jos 12:9 the king of Jericho, one; the king of Ai, which is beside Bethel, one;
Jos 12:10 the king of Jerusalem, one; the king of Hebron, one;
Jos 12:11 the king of Jarmuth, one; the king of Lachish, one;
Jos 12:12 the king of Eglon, one; the king of Gezer, one;
Jos 12:13 the king of Debir, one; the king of Geder, one;
Jos 12:14 the king of Hormah, one; the king of Arad, one;
Jos 12:15 the king of Libnah, one; the king of Adullam, one;
Jos 12:16 the king of Makkedah, one; the king of Bethel, one;
Jos 12:17 the king of Tappuah, one; the king of Hepher, one;
Jos 12:18 the king of Aphek, one; the king of Lasharon, one;
Jos 12:19 the king of Madon, one; the king of Hazor, one;
Jos 12:20 the king of Shimron-meron, one; the king of Achshaph, one;
Jos 12:21 the king of Taanach, one; the king of Megiddo, one;
Jos 12:22 the king of Kedesh, one; the king of Jokneam in Carmel, one;
Jos 12:23 the king of Dor in Naphath-dor, one; the king of Goiim in Galilee, one;
Jos 12:24 the king of Tirzah, one: in all, thirty-one kings.
Jos 13:1 Now Joshua was old and advanced in years, and the LORD said to him, "You are old and advanced in
years, and there remains yet very much land to possess.
Jos 13:2 This is the land that yet remains: all the regions of the Philistines, and all those of the Geshurites
Jos 13:3 (from the Shihor, which is east of Egypt, northward to the boundary of Ekron, it is counted as
Canaanite; there are five rulers of the Philistines, those of Gaza, Ashdod, Ashkelon, Gath, and Ekron), and those
of the Avvim,
Jos 13:4 in the south, all the land of the Canaanites, and Mearah that belongs to the Sidonians, to Aphek, to the
boundary of the Amorites,
Jos 13:5 and the land of the Gebalites, and all Lebanon, toward the sunrise, from Baal-gad below Mount
Hermon to Lebo-hamath,
Jos 13:6 all the inhabitants of the hill country from Lebanon to Misrephoth-maim, even all the Sidonians. I myself
will drive them out from before the people of Israel. Only allot the land to Israel for an inheritance, as I have
commanded you.
Jos 13:7 Now therefore divide this land for an inheritance to the nine tribes and half the tribe of Manasseh."
Jos 13:8 With the other half of the tribe of Manasseh the Reubenites and the Gadites received their inheritance,
which Moses gave them, beyond the Jordan eastward, as Moses the servant of the LORD gave them:
Jos 13:9 from Aroer, which is on the edge of the Valley of the Arnon, and the city that is in the middle of the
valley, and all the tableland of Medeba as far as Dibon;
Jos 13:10 and all the cities of Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, as far as the boundary of the
Ammonites;
Jos 13:11 and Gilead, and the region of the Geshurites and Maacathites, and all Mount Hermon, and all Bashan
to Salecah;
Jos 13:12 all the kingdom of Og in Bashan, who reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edrei (he alone was left of the
remnant of the Rephaim); these Moses had struck and driven out.Jos 13:13 Yet the people of Israel did not drive out the Geshurites or the Maacathites, but Geshur and Maacath
dwell in the midst of Israel to this day.
Jos 13:14 To the tribe of Levi alone Moses gave no inheritance. The offerings by fire to the LORD God of Israel
are their inheritance, as he said to him.
Jos 13:15 And Moses gave an inheritance to the tribe of the people of Reuben according to their clans.
Jos 13:16 So their territory was from Aroer, which is on the edge of the Valley of the Arnon, and the city that is
in the middle of the valley, and all the tableland by Medeba;
Jos 13:17 with Heshbon, and all its cities that are in the tableland; Dibon, and Bamoth-baal, and Beth-baalmeon,
Jos 13:18 and Jahaz, and Kedemoth, and Mephaath,
Jos 13:19 and Kiriathaim, and Sibmah, and Zereth-shahar on the hill of the valley,
Jos 13:20 and Beth-peor, and the slopes of Pisgah, and Beth-jeshimoth,
Jos 13:21 that is, all the cities of the tableland, and all the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in
Heshbon, whom Moses defeated with the leaders of Midian, Evi and Rekem and Zur and Hur and Reba, the
princes of Sihon, who lived in the land.
Jos 13:22 Balaam also, the son of Beor, the one who practiced divination, was killed with the sword by the
people of Israel among the rest of their slain.
Jos 13:23 And the border of the people of Reuben was the Jordan as a boundary. This was the inheritance of
the people of Reuben, according to their clans with their cities and villages.
Jos 13:24 Moses gave an inheritance also to the tribe of Gad, to the people of Gad, according to their clans.
Jos 13:25 Their territory was Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead, and half the land of the Ammonites, to Aroer,
which is east of Rabbah,
Jos 13:26 and from Heshbon to Ramath-mizpeh and Betonim, and from Mahanaim to the territory of Debir,
Jos 13:27 and in the valley Beth-haram, Beth-nimrah, Succoth, and Zaphon, the rest of the kingdom of Sihon
king of Heshbon, having the Jordan as a boundary, to the lower end of the Sea of Chinnereth, eastward beyond
the Jordan.
Jos 13:28 This is the inheritance of the people of Gad according to their clans, with their cities and villages.
Jos 13:29 And Moses gave an inheritance to the half-tribe of Manasseh. It was allotted to the half-tribe of the
people of Manasseh according to their clans.
Jos 13:30 Their region extended from Mahanaim, through all Bashan, the whole kingdom of Og king of Bashan,
and all the towns of Jair, which are in Bashan, sixty cities,
Jos 13:31 and half Gilead, and Ashtaroth, and Edrei, the cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan. These were
allotted to the people of Machir the son of Manasseh for the half of the people of Machir according to their clans.
Jos 13:32 These are the inheritances that Moses distributed in the plains of Moab, beyond the Jordan east of
Jericho.
Jos 13:33 But to the tribe of Levi Moses gave no inheritance; the LORD God of Israel is their inheritance, just as
he said to them.
Jos 14:1 These are the inheritances that the people of Israel received in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the
priest and Joshua the son of Nun and the heads of the fathers' houses of the tribes of the people of Israel gave
them to inherit.
Jos 14:2 Their inheritance was by lot, just as the LORD had commanded by the hand of Moses for the nine and
one-half tribes.
Jos 14:3 For Moses had given an inheritance to the two and one-half tribes beyond the Jordan, but to the
Levites he gave no inheritance among them.
Jos 14:4 For the people of Joseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim. And no portion was given to the
Levites in the land, but only cities to dwell in, with their pasturelands for their livestock and their substance.
Jos 14:5 The people of Israel did as the LORD commanded Moses; they allotted the land.
Jos 14:6 Then the people of Judah came to Joshua at Gilgal. And Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite
said to him, "You know what the LORD said to Moses the man of God in Kadesh-barnea concerning you and
me.
Jos 14:7 I was forty years old when Moses the servant of the LORD sent me from Kadesh-barnea to spy out the
land, and I brought him word again as it was in my heart.
Jos 14:8 But my brothers who went up with me made the heart of the people melt; yet I wholly followed the
LORD my God.
Jos 14:9 And Moses swore on that day, saying, 'Surely the land on which your foot has trodden shall be an
inheritance for you and your children forever, because you have wholly followed the LORD my God.'
Jos 14:10 And now, behold, the LORD has kept me alive, just as he said, these forty-five years since the time
that the LORD spoke this word to Moses, while Israel walked in the wilderness. And now, behold, I am this day
eighty-five years old.Jos 14:11 I am still as strong today as I was in the day that Moses sent me; my strength now is as my strength
was then, for war and for going and coming.
Jos 14:12 So now give me this hill country of which the LORD spoke on that day, for you heard on that day how
the Anakim were there, with great fortified cities. It may be that the LORD will be with me, and I shall drive them
out just as the LORD said."
Jos 14:13 Then Joshua blessed him, and he gave Hebron to Caleb the son of Jephunneh for an inheritance.
Jos 14:14 Therefore Hebron became the inheritance of Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite to this day,
because he wholly followed the LORD, the God of Israel.
Jos 14:15 Now the name of Hebron formerly was Kiriath-arba. (Arba was the greatest man among the Anakim.)
And the land had rest from war.
Jos 15:1 The allotment for the tribe of the people of Judah according to their clans reached southward to the
boundary of Edom, to the wilderness of Zin at the farthest south.
Jos 15:2 And their south boundary ran from the end of the Salt Sea, from the bay that faces southward.
Jos 15:3 It goes out southward of the ascent of Akrabbim, passes along to Zin, and goes up south of Kadeshbarnea, along by Hezron, up to Addar, turns about to Karka,
Jos 15:4 passes along to Azmon, goes out by the Brook of Egypt, and comes to its end at the sea. This shall be
your south boundary.
Jos 15:5 And the east boundary is the Salt Sea, to the mouth of the Jordan. And the boundary on the north side
runs from the bay of the sea at the mouth of the Jordan.
Jos 15:6 And the boundary goes up to Beth-hoglah and passes along north of Beth-arabah. And the boundary
goes up to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben.
Jos 15:7 And the boundary goes up to Debir from the Valley of Achor, and so northward, turning toward Gilgal,
which is opposite the ascent of Adummim, which is on the south side of the valley. And the boundary passes
along to the waters of En-shemesh and ends at En-rogel.
Jos 15:8 Then the boundary goes up by the Valley of the Son of Hinnom at the southern shoulder of the
Jebusite ( that is, Jerusalem). And the boundary goes up to the top of the mountain that lies over against the
Valley of Hinnom, on the west, at the northern end of the Valley of Rephaim.
Jos 15:9 Then the boundary extends from the top of the mountain to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah, and
from there to the cities of Mount Ephron. Then the boundary bends around to Baalah ( that is, Kiriath-jearim).
Jos 15:10 And the boundary circles west of Baalah to Mount Seir, passes along to the northern shoulder of
Mount Jearim (that is, Chesalon), and goes down to Beth-shemesh and passes along by Timnah.
Jos 15:11 The boundary goes out to the shoulder of the hill north of Ekron, then the boundary bends around to
Shikkeron and passes along to Mount Baalah and goes out to Jabneel. Then the boundary comes to an end at
the sea.
Jos 15:12 And the west boundary was the Great Sea with its coastline. This is the boundary around the people
of Judah according to their clans.
Jos 15:13 According to the commandment of the LORD to Joshua, he gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh a
portion among the people of Judah, Kiriath-arba, that is, Hebron (Arba was the father of Anak).
Jos 15:14 And Caleb drove out from there the three sons of Anak, Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai, the
descendants of Anak.
Jos 15:15 And he went up from there against the inhabitants of Debir. Now the name of Debir formerly was
Kiriath-sepher.
Jos 15:16 And Caleb said, "Whoever strikes Kiriath-sepher and captures it, to him will I give Achsah my
daughter as wife."
Jos 15:17 And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the brother of Caleb, captured it. And he gave him Achsah his
daughter as wife.
Jos 15:18 When she came to him, she urged him to ask her father for a field. And she got off her donkey, and
Caleb said to her, "What do you want?"
Jos 15:19 She said to him, "Give me a blessing. Since you have given me the land of the Negeb, give me also
springs of water." And he gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
Jos 15:20 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the people of Judah according to their clans.
Jos 15:21 The cities belonging to the tribe of the people of Judah in the extreme south, toward the boundary of
Edom, were Kabzeel, Eder, Jagur,
Jos 15:22 Kinah, Dimonah, Adadah,
Jos 15:23 Kedesh, Hazor, Ithnan,
Jos 15:24 Ziph, Telem, Bealoth,
Jos 15:25 Hazor-hadattah, Kerioth-hezron (that is, Hazor),
Jos 15:26 Amam, Shema, Moladah,
Jos 15:27 Hazar-gaddah, Heshmon, Beth-pelet,Jos 15:28 Hazar-shual, Beersheba, Biziothiah,
Jos 15:29 Baalah, Iim, Ezem,
Jos 15:30 Eltolad, Chesil, Hormah,
Jos 15:31 Ziklag, Madmannah, Sansannah,
Jos 15:32 Lebaoth, Shilhim, Ain, and Rimmon: in all, twenty-nine cities with their villages.
Jos 15:33 And in the lowland, Eshtaol, Zorah, Ashnah,
Jos 15:34 Zanoah, En-gannim, Tappuah, Enam,
Jos 15:35 Jarmuth, Adullam, Socoh, Azekah,
Jos 15:36 Sha-araim, Adithaim, Gederah, Gederothaim: fourteen cities with their villages.
Jos 15:37 Zenan, Hadashah, Migdal-gad,
Jos 15:38 Dilean, Mizpeh, Joktheel,
Jos 15:39 Lachish, Bozkath, Eglon,
Jos 15:40 Cabbon, Lahmam, Chitlish,
Jos 15:41 Gederoth, Beth-dagon, Naamah, and Makkedah: sixteen cities with their villages.
Jos 15:42 Libnah, Ether, Ashan,
Jos 15:43 Iphtah, Ashnah, Nezib,
Jos 15:44 Keilah, Achzib, and Mareshah: nine cities with their villages.
Jos 15:45 Ekron, with its towns and its villages;
Jos 15:46 from Ekron to the sea, all that were by the side of Ashdod, with their villages.
Jos 15:47 Ashdod, its towns and its villages; Gaza, its towns and its villages; to the Brook of Egypt, and the
Great Sea with its coastline.
Jos 15:48 And in the hill country, Shamir, Jattir, Socoh,
Jos 15:49 Dannah, Kiriath-sannah ( that is, Debir),
Jos 15:50 Anab, Eshtemoh, Anim,
Jos 15:51 Goshen, Holon, and Giloh: eleven cities with their villages.
Jos 15:52 Arab, Dumah, Eshan,
Jos 15:53 Janim, Beth-tappuah, Aphekah,
Jos 15:54 Humtah, Kiriath-arba (that is, Hebron), and Zior: nine cities with their villages.
Jos 15:55 Maon, Carmel, Ziph, Juttah,
Jos 15:56 Jezreel, Jokdeam, Zanoah,
Jos 15:57 Kain, Gibeah, and Timnah: ten cities with their villages.
Jos 15:58 Halhul, Beth-zur, Gedor,
Jos 15:59 Maarath, Beth-anoth, and Eltekon: six cities with their villages.
Jos 15:60 Kiriath-baal (that is, Kiriath-jearim), and Rabbah: two cities with their villages.
Jos 15:61 In the wilderness, Beth-arabah, Middin, Secacah,
Jos 15:62 Nibshan, the City of Salt, and Engedi: six cities with their villages.
Jos 15:63 But the Jebusites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the people of Judah could not drive out, so the
Jebusites dwell with the people of Judah at Jerusalem to this day.
Jos 16:1 The allotment of the people of Joseph went from the Jordan by Jericho, east of the waters of Jericho,
into the wilderness, going up from Jericho into the hill country to Bethel.
Jos 16:2 Then going from Bethel to Luz, it passes along to Ataroth, the territory of the Archites.
Jos 16:3 Then it goes down westward to the territory of the Japhletites, as far as the territory of Lower Bethhoron, then to Gezer, and it ends at the sea.
Jos 16:4 The people of Joseph, Manasseh and Ephraim, received their inheritance.
Jos 16:5 The territory of the people of Ephraim by their clans was as follows: the boundary of their inheritance
on the east was Ataroth-addar as far as Upper Beth-horon,
Jos 16:6 and the boundary goes from there to the sea. On the north is Michmethath. Then on the east the
boundary turns around toward Taanath-shiloh and passes along beyond it on the east to Janoah,
Jos 16:7 then it goes down from Janoah to Ataroth and to Naarah, and touches Jericho, ending at the Jordan.
Jos 16:8 From Tappuah the boundary goes westward to the brook Kanah and ends at the sea. Such is the
inheritance of the tribe of the people of Ephraim by their clans,
Jos 16:9 together with the towns that were set apart for the people of Ephraim within the inheritance of the
Manassites, all those towns with their villages.
Jos 16:10 However, they did not drive out the Canaanites who lived in Gezer, so the Canaanites have lived in
the midst of Ephraim to this day but have been made to do forced labor.
Jos 17:1 Then allotment was made to the people of Manasseh, for he was the firstborn of Joseph. To Machir the
firstborn of Manasseh, the father of Gilead, were allotted Gilead and Bashan, because he was a man of war.
Jos 17:2 And allotments were made to the rest of the people of Manasseh by their clans, Abiezer, Helek, Asriel,
Shechem, Hepher, and Shemida. These were the male descendants of Manasseh the son of Joseph, by theirclans.
Jos 17:3 Now Zelophehad the son of Hepher, son of Gilead, son of Machir, son of Manasseh, had no sons, but
only daughters, and these are the names of his daughters: Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
Jos 17:4 They approached Eleazar the priest and Joshua the son of Nun and the leaders and said, "The LORD
commanded Moses to give us an inheritance along with our brothers." So according to the mouth of the LORD
he gave them an inheritance among the brothers of their father.
Jos 17:5 Thus there fell to Manasseh ten portions, besides the land of Gilead and Bashan, which is on the other
side of the Jordan,
Jos 17:6 because the daughters of Manasseh received an inheritance along with his sons. The land of Gilead
was allotted to the rest of the people of Manasseh.
Jos 17:7 The territory of Manasseh reached from Asher to Michmethath, which is east of Shechem. Then the
boundary goes along southward to the inhabitants of En-tappuah.
Jos 17:8 The land of Tappuah belonged to Manasseh, but the town of Tappuah on the boundary of Manasseh
belonged to the people of Ephraim.
Jos 17:9 Then the boundary went down to the brook Kanah. These cities, to the south of the brook, among the
cities of Manasseh, belong to Ephraim. Then the boundary of Manasseh goes on the north side of the brook and
ends at the sea,
Jos 17:10 the land to the south being Ephraim's and that to the north being Manasseh's, with the sea forming its
boundary. On the north Asher is reached, and on the east Issachar.
Jos 17:11 Also in Issachar and in Asher Manasseh had Beth-shean and its villages, and Ibleam and its villages,
and the inhabitants of Dor and its villages, and the inhabitants of En-dor and its villages, and the inhabitants of
Taanach and its villages, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and its villages; the third is Naphath.
Jos 17:12 Yet the people of Manasseh could not take possession of those cities, but the Canaanites persisted in
dwelling in that land.
Jos 17:13 Now when the people of Israel grew strong, they put the Canaanites to forced labor, but did not utterly
drive them out.
Jos 17:14 Then the people of Joseph spoke to Joshua, saying, "Why have you given me but one lot and one
portion as an inheritance, although I am a numerous people, since all along the LORD has blessed me?"
Jos 17:15 And Joshua said to them, "If you are a numerous people, go up by yourselves to the forest, and there
clear ground for yourselves in the land of the Perizzites and the Rephaim, since the hill country of Ephraim is too
narrow for you."
Jos 17:16 The people of Joseph said, "The hill country is not enough for us. Yet all the Canaanites who dwell in
the plain have chariots of iron, both those in Beth-shean and its villages and those in the Valley of Jezreel."
Jos 17:17 Then Joshua said to the house of Joseph, to Ephraim and Manasseh, "You are a numerous people
and have great power. You shall not have one allotment only,
Jos 17:18 but the hill country shall be yours, for though it is a forest, you shall clear it and possess it to its
farthest borders. For you shall drive out the Canaanites, though they have chariots of iron, and though they are
strong."
Jos 18:1 Then the whole congregation of the people of Israel assembled at Shiloh and set up the tent of
meeting there. The land lay subdued before them.
Jos 18:2 There remained among the people of Israel seven tribes whose inheritance had not yet been
apportioned.
Jos 18:3 So Joshua said to the people of Israel, "How long will you put off going in to take possession of the
land, which the LORD, the God of your fathers, has given you?
Jos 18:4 Provide three men from each tribe, and I will send them out that they may set out and go up and down
the land. They shall write a description of it with a view to their inheritances, and then come to me.
Jos 18:5 They shall divide it into seven portions. Judah shall continue in his territory on the south, and the house
of Joseph shall continue in their territory on the north.
Jos 18:6 And you shall describe the land in seven divisions and bring the description here to me. And I will cast
lots for you here before the LORD our God.
Jos 18:7 The Levites have no portion among you, for the priesthood of the LORD is their heritage. And Gad and
Reuben and half the tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance beyond the Jordan eastward, which
Moses the servant of the LORD gave them."
Jos 18:8 So the men arose and went, and Joshua charged those who went to write the description of the land,
saying, "Go up and down in the land and write a description and return to me. And I will cast lots for you here
before the LORD in Shiloh."
Jos 18:9 So the men went and passed up and down in the land and wrote in a book a description of it by towns
in seven divisions. Then they came to Joshua to the camp at Shiloh,
Jos 18:10 and Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh before the LORD. And there Joshua apportioned the land tothe people of Israel, to each his portion.
Jos 18:11 The lot of the tribe of the people of Benjamin according to its clans came up, and the territory allotted
to it fell between the people of Judah and the people of Joseph.
Jos 18:12 On the north side their boundary began at the Jordan. Then the boundary goes up to the shoulder
north of Jericho, then up through the hill country westward, and it ends at the wilderness of Beth-aven.
Jos 18:13 From there the boundary passes along southward in the direction of Luz, to the shoulder of Luz (that
is, Bethel), then the boundary goes down to Ataroth-addar, on the mountain that lies south of Lower Beth-horon.
Jos 18:14 Then the boundary goes in another direction, turning on the western side southward from the
mountain that lies to the south, opposite Beth-horon, and it ends at Kiriath-baal ( that is, Kiriath-jearim), a city
belonging to the people of Judah. This forms the western side.
Jos 18:15 And the southern side begins at the outskirts of Kiriath-jearim. And the boundary goes from there to
Ephron, to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah.
Jos 18:16 Then the boundary goes down to the border of the mountain that overlooks the Valley of the Son of
Hinnom, which is at the north end of the Valley of Rephaim. And it then goes down the Valley of Hinnom, south
of the shoulder of the Jebusites, and downward to En-rogel.
Jos 18:17 Then it bends in a northerly direction going on to En-shemesh, and from there goes to Geliloth, which
is opposite the ascent of Adummim. Then it goes down to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben,
Jos 18:18 and passing on to the north of the shoulder of Beth-arabah it goes down to the Arabah.
Jos 18:19 Then the boundary passes on to the north of the shoulder of Beth-hoglah. And the boundary ends at
the northern bay of the Salt Sea, at the south end of the Jordan: this is the southern border.
Jos 18:20 The Jordan forms its boundary on the eastern side. This is the inheritance of the people of Benjamin,
according to their clans, boundary by boundary all around.
Jos 18:21 Now the cities of the tribe of the people of Benjamin according to their clans were Jericho, Bethhoglah, Emek-keziz,
Jos 18:22 Beth-arabah, Zemaraim, Bethel,
Jos 18:23 Avvim, Parah, Ophrah,
Jos 18:24 Chepharammoni, Ophni, Geba- twelve cities with their villages:
Jos 18:25 Gibeon, Ramah, Beeroth,
Jos 18:26 Mizpeh, Chephirah, Mozah,
Jos 18:27 Rekem, Irpeel, Taralah,
Jos 18:28 Zela, Haeleph, Jebus (that is, Jerusalem), Gibeah and Kiriath-jearim- fourteen cities with their
villages. This is the inheritance of the people of Benjamin according to its clans.
Jos 19:1 The second lot came out for Simeon, for the tribe of the people of Simeon, according to their clans,
and their inheritance was in the midst of the inheritance of the people of Judah.
Jos 19:2 And they had for their inheritance Beersheba, Sheba, Moladah,
Jos 19:3 Hazar-shual, Balah, Ezem,
Jos 19:4 Eltolad, Bethul, Hormah,
Jos 19:5 Ziklag, Beth-marcaboth, Hazar-susah,
Jos 19:6 Beth-lebaoth, and Sharuhen- thirteen cities with their villages;
Jos 19:7 Ain, Rimmon, Ether, and Ashan- four cities with their villages,
Jos 19:8 together with all the villages around these cities as far as Baalath-beer, Ramah of the Negeb. This was
the inheritance of the tribe of the people of Simeon according to their clans.
Jos 19:9 The inheritance of the people of Simeon formed part of the territory of the people of Judah. Because
the portion of the people of Judah was too large for them, the people of Simeon obtained an inheritance in the
midst of their inheritance.
Jos 19:10 The third lot came up for the people of Zebulun, according to their clans. And the territory of their
inheritance reached as far as Sarid.
Jos 19:11 Then their boundary goes up westward and on to Mareal and touches Dabbesheth, then the brook
that is east of Jokne-am.
Jos 19:12 From Sarid it goes in the other direction eastward toward the sunrise to the boundary of Chislothtabor. From there it goes to Daberath, then up to Japhia.
Jos 19:13 From there it passes along on the east toward the sunrise to Gath-hepher, to Eth-kazin, and going on
to Rimmon it bends toward Neah,
Jos 19:14 then on the north the boundary turns about to Hannathon, and it ends at the Valley of Iphtahel;
Jos 19:15 and Kattath, Nahalal, Shimron, Idalah, and Bethlehem- twelve cities with their villages.
Jos 19:16 This is the inheritance of the people of Zebulun, according to their clans- these cities with their
villages.
Jos 19:17 The fourth lot came out for Issachar, for the people of Issachar, according to their clans.
Jos 19:18 Their territory included Jezreel, Chesulloth, Shunem,Jos 19:19 Hapharaim, Shion, Anaharath,
Jos 19:20 Rabbith, Kishion, Ebez,
Jos 19:21 Remeth, En-gannim, En-haddah, Beth-pazzez.
Jos 19:22 The boundary also touches Tabor, Shahazumah, and Beth-shemesh, and its boundary ends at the
Jordan- sixteen cities with their villages.
Jos 19:23 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the people of Issachar, according to their clans- the cities with
their villages.
Jos 19:24 The fifth lot came out for the tribe of the people of Asher according to their clans.
Jos 19:25 Their territory included Helkath, Hali, Beten, Achshaph,
Jos 19:26 Allammelech, Amad, and Mishal. On the west it touches Carmel and Shihor-libnath,
Jos 19:27 then it turns eastward, it goes to Beth-dagon, and touches Zebulun and the Valley of Iphtahel
northward to Beth-emek and Neiel. Then it continues in the north to Cabul,
Jos 19:28 Ebron, Rehob, Hammon, Kanah, as far as Sidon the Great.
Jos 19:29 Then the boundary turns to Ramah, reaching to the fortified city of Tyre. Then the boundary turns to
Hosah, and it ends at the sea; Mahalab, Achzib,
Jos 19:30 Ummah, Aphek and Rehob- twenty-two cities with their villages.
Jos 19:31 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the people of Asher according to their clans- these cities with
their villages.
Jos 19:32 The sixth lot came out for the people of Naphtali, for the people of Naphtali, according to their clans.
Jos 19:33 And their boundary ran from Heleph, from the oak in Zaanannim, and Adami-nekeb, and Jabneel, as
far as Lakkum, and it ended at the Jordan.
Jos 19:34 Then the boundary turns westward to Aznoth-tabor and goes from there to Hukkok, touching Zebulun
at the south and Asher on the west and Judah on the east at the Jordan.
Jos 19:35 The fortified cities are Ziddim, Zer, Hammath, Rakkath, Chinnereth,
Jos 19:36 Adamah, Ramah, Hazor,
Jos 19:37 Kedesh, Edrei, En-hazor,
Jos 19:38 Yiron, Migdal-el, Horem, Beth-anath, and Beth-shemesh- nineteen cities with their villages.
Jos 19:39 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the people of Naphtali according to their clans- the cities with
their villages.
Jos 19:40 The seventh lot came out for the tribe of the people of Dan, according to their clans.
Jos 19:41 And the territory of its inheritance included Zorah, Eshtaol, Ir-shemesh,
Jos 19:42 Shaalabbin, Aijalon, Ithlah,
Jos 19:43 Elon, Timnah, Ekron,
Jos 19:44 Eltekeh, Gibbethon, Baalath,
Jos 19:45 Jehud, Bene-berak, Gath-rimmon,
Jos 19:46 and Me-jarkon and Rakkon with the territory over against Joppa.
Jos 19:47 When the territory of the people of Dan was lost to them, the people of Dan went up and fought
against Leshem, and after capturing it and striking it with the sword they took possession of it and settled in it,
calling Leshem, Dan, after the name of Dan their ancestor.
Jos 19:48 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the people of Dan, according to their clans- these cities with their
villages.
Jos 19:49 When they had finished distributing the several territories of the land as inheritances, the people of
Israel gave an inheritance among them to Joshua the son of Nun.
Jos 19:50 By command of the LORD they gave him the city that he asked, Timnath-serah in the hill country of
Ephraim. And he rebuilt the city and settled in it.
Jos 19:51 These are the inheritances that Eleazar the priest and Joshua the son of Nun and the heads of the
fathers' houses of the tribes of the people of Israel distributed by lot at Shiloh before the LORD, at the entrance
of the tent of meeting. So they finished dividing the land.
Jos 20:1 Then the LORD said to Joshua,
Jos 20:2 "Say to the people of Israel, 'Appoint the cities of refuge, of which I spoke to you through Moses,
Jos 20:3 that the manslayer who strikes any person without intent or unknowingly may flee there. They shall be
for you a refuge from the avenger of blood.
Jos 20:4 He shall flee to one of these cities and shall stand at the entrance of the gate of the city and explain his
case to the elders of that city. Then they shall take him into the city and give him a place, and he shall remain
with them.
Jos 20:5 And if the avenger of blood pursues him, they shall not give up the manslayer into his hand, because
he struck his neighbor unknowingly, and did not hate him in the past.
Jos 20:6 And he shall remain in that city until he has stood before the congregation for judgment, until the death
of him who is high priest at the time. Then the manslayer may return to his own town and his own home, to thetown from which he fled.'"
Jos 20:7 So they set apart Kedesh in Galilee in the hill country of Naphtali, and Shechem in the hill country of
Ephraim, and Kiriath-arba (that is, Hebron) in the hill country of Judah.
Jos 20:8 And beyond the Jordan east of Jericho, they appointed Bezer in the wilderness on the tableland, from
the tribe of Reuben, and Ramoth in Gilead, from the tribe of Gad, and Golan in Bashan, from the tribe of
Manasseh.
Jos 20:9 These were the cities designated for all the people of Israel and for the stranger sojourning among
them, that anyone who killed a person without intent could flee there, so that he might not die by the hand of the
avenger of blood, till he stood before the congregation.
Jos 21:1 Then the heads of the fathers' houses of the Levites came to Eleazar the priest and to Joshua the son
of Nun and to the heads of the fathers' houses of the tribes of the people of Israel.
Jos 21:2 And they said to them at Shiloh in the land of Canaan, "The LORD commanded through Moses that we
be given cities to dwell in, along with their pasturelands for our livestock."
Jos 21:3 So by command of the LORD the people of Israel gave to the Levites the following cities and
pasturelands out of their inheritance.
Jos 21:4 The lot came out for the clans of the Kohathites. So those Levites who were descendants of Aaron the
priest received by lot from the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin, thirteen cities.
Jos 21:5 And the rest of the Kohathites received by lot from the clans of the tribe of Ephraim, from the tribe of
Dan and the half-tribe of Manasseh, ten cities.
Jos 21:6 The Gershonites received by lot from the clans of the tribe of Issachar, from the tribe of Asher, from the
tribe of Naphtali, and from the half-tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities.
Jos 21:7 The Merarites according to their clans received from the tribe of Reuben, the tribe of Gad, and the tribe
of Zebulun, twelve cities.
Jos 21:8 These cities and their pasturelands the people of Israel gave by lot to the Levites, as the LORD had
commanded through Moses.
Jos 21:9 Out of the tribe of the people of Judah and the tribe of the people of Simeon they gave the following
cities mentioned by name,
Jos 21:10 which went to the descendants of Aaron, one of the clans of the Kohathites who belonged to the
people of Levi; since the lot fell to them first.
Jos 21:11 They gave them Kiriath-arba (Arba being the father of Anak), that is Hebron, in the hill country of
Judah, along with the pasturelands around it.
Jos 21:12 But the fields of the city and its villages had been given to Caleb the son of Jephunneh as his
possession.
Jos 21:13 And to the descendants of Aaron the priest they gave Hebron, the city of refuge for the manslayer,
with its pasturelands, Libnah with its pasturelands,
Jos 21:14 Jattir with its pasturelands, Eshtemoa with its pasturelands,
Jos 21:15 Holon with its pasturelands, Debir with its pasturelands,
Jos 21:16 Ain with its pasturelands, Juttah with its pasturelands, Beth-shemesh with its pasturelands- nine cities
out of these two tribes;
Jos 21:17 then out of the tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon with its pasturelands, Geba with its pasturelands,
Jos 21:18 Anathoth with its pasturelands, and Almon with its pasturelands- four cities.
Jos 21:19 The cities of the descendants of Aaron, the priests, were in all thirteen cities with their pasturelands.
Jos 21:20 As to the rest of the Kohathites belonging to the Kohathite clans of the Levites, the cities allotted to
them were out of the tribe of Ephraim.
Jos 21:21 To them were given Shechem, the city of refuge for the manslayer, with its pasturelands in the hill
country of Ephraim, Gezer with its pasturelands,
Jos 21:22 Kibzaim with its pasturelands, Beth-horon with its pasturelands- four cities;
Jos 21:23 and out of the tribe of Dan, Elteke with its pasturelands, Gibbethon with its pasturelands,
Jos 21:24 Aijalon with its pasturelands, Gath-rimmon with its pasturelands- four cities;
Jos 21:25 and out of the half-tribe of Manasseh, Taanach with its pasturelands, and Gath-rimmon with its
pasturelands- two cities.
Jos 21:26 The cities of the clans of the rest of the Kohathites were ten in all with their pasturelands.
Jos 21:27 And to the Gershonites, one of the clans of the Levites, were given out of the half-tribe of Manasseh,
Golan in Bashan with its pasturelands, the city of refuge for the manslayer, and Beeshterah with its
pasturelands- two cities;
Jos 21:28 and out of the tribe of Issachar, Kishion with its pasturelands, Daberath with its pasturelands,
Jos 21:29 Jarmuth with its pasturelands, En-gannim with its pasturelands- four cities;
Jos 21:30 and out of the tribe of Asher, Mishal with its pasturelands, Abdon with its pasturelands,
Jos 21:31 Helkath with its pasturelands, and Rehob with its pasturelands- four cities;Jos 21:32 and out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee with its pasturelands, the city of refuge for the
manslayer, Hammoth-dor with its pasturelands, and Kartan with its pasturelands- three cities.
Jos 21:33 The cities of the several clans of the Gershonites were in all thirteen cities with their pasturelands.
Jos 21:34 And to the rest of the Levites, the Merarite clans, were given out of the tribe of Zebulun, Jokneam with
its pasturelands, Kartah with its pasturelands,
Jos 21:35 Dimnah with its pasturelands, Nahalal with its pasturelands- four cities;
Jos 21:36 and out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer with its pasturelands, Jahaz with its pasturelands,
Jos 21:37 Kedemoth with its pasturelands, and Mephaath with its pasturelands- four cities;
Jos 21:38 and out of the tribe of Gad, Ramoth in Gilead with its pasturelands, the city of refuge for the
manslayer, Mahanaim with its pasturelands,
Jos 21:39 Heshbon with its pasturelands, Jazer with its pasturelands- four cities in all.
Jos 21:40 As for the cities of the several Merarite clans, that is, the remainder of the clans of the Levites, those
allotted to them were in all twelve cities.
Jos 21:41 The cities of the Levites in the midst of the possession of the people of Israel were in all forty-eight
cities with their pasturelands.
Jos 21:42 These cities each had its pasturelands around it. So it was with all these cities.
Jos 21:43 Thus the LORD gave to Israel all the land that he swore to give to their fathers. And they took
possession of it, and they settled there.
Jos 21:44 And the LORD gave them rest on every side just as he had sworn to their fathers. Not one of all their
enemies had withstood them, for the LORD had given all their enemies into their hands.
Jos 21:45 Not one word of all the good promises that the LORD had made to the house of Israel had failed; all
came to pass.
Jos 22:1 At that time Joshua summoned the Reubenites and the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh,
Jos 22:2 and said to them, "You have kept all that Moses the servant of the LORD commanded you and have
obeyed my voice in all that I have commanded you.
Jos 22:3 You have not forsaken your brothers these many days, down to this day, but have been careful to keep
the charge of the LORD your God.
Jos 22:4 And now the LORD your God has given rest to your brothers, as he promised them. Therefore turn and
go to your tents in the land where your possession lies, which Moses the servant of the LORD gave you on the
other side of the Jordan.
Jos 22:5 Only be very careful to observe the commandment and the law that Moses the servant of the LORD
commanded you, to love the LORD your God, and to walk in all his ways and to keep his commandments and to
cling to him and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul."
Jos 22:6 So Joshua blessed them and sent them away, and they went to their tents.
Jos 22:7 Now to the one half of the tribe of Manasseh Moses had given a possession in Bashan, but to the
other half Joshua had given a possession beside their brothers in the land west of the Jordan. And when Joshua
sent them away to their homes and blessed them,
Jos 22:8 he said to them, "Go back to your tents with much wealth and with very much livestock, with silver,
gold, bronze, and iron, and with much clothing. Divide the spoil of your enemies with your brothers."
Jos 22:9 So the people of Reuben and the people of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh returned home, parting
from the people of Israel at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan, to go to the land of Gilead, their own land of
which they had possessed themselves by command of the LORD through Moses.
Jos 22:10 And when they came to the region of the Jordan that is in the land of Canaan, the people of Reuben
and the people of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh built there an altar by the Jordan, an altar of imposing
size.
Jos 22:11 And the people of Israel heard it said, "Behold, the people of Reuben and the people of Gad and the
half-tribe of Manasseh have built the altar at the frontier of the land of Canaan, in the region about the Jordan, on
the side that belongs to the people of Israel."
Jos 22:12 And when the people of Israel heard of it, the whole assembly of the people of Israel gathered at
Shiloh to make war against them.
Jos 22:13 Then the people of Israel sent to the people of Reuben and the people of Gad and the half-tribe of
Manasseh, in the land of Gilead, Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest,
Jos 22:14 and with him ten chiefs, one from each of the tribal families of Israel, every one of them the head of a
family among the clans of Israel.
Jos 22:15 And they came to the people of Reuben, the people of Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, in the
land of Gilead, and they said to them,
Jos 22:16 "Thus says the whole congregation of the LORD, 'What is this breach of faith that you have
committed against the God of Israel in turning away this day from following the LORD by building yourselves an
altar this day in rebellion against the LORD?Jos 22:17 Have we not had enough of the sin at Peor from which even yet we have not cleansed ourselves, and
for which there came a plague upon the congregation of the LORD,
Jos 22:18 that you too must turn away this day from following the LORD? And if you too rebel against the LORD
today then tomorrow he will be angry with the whole congregation of Israel.
Jos 22:19 But now, if the land of your possession is unclean, pass over into the LORD's land where the LORD's
tabernacle stands, and take for yourselves a possession among us. Only do not rebel against the LORD or make
us as rebels by building for yourselves an altar other than the altar of the LORD our God.
Jos 22:20 Did not Achan the son of Zerah break faith in the matter of the devoted things, and wrath fell upon all
the congregation of Israel? And he did not perish alone for his iniquity.'"
Jos 22:21 Then the people of Reuben, the people of Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh said in answer to the
heads of the families of Israel,
Jos 22:22 "The Mighty One, God, the LORD! The Mighty One, God, the LORD! He knows; and let Israel itself
know! If it was in rebellion or in breach of faith against the LORD, do not spare us today
Jos 22:23 for building an altar to turn away from following the LORD. Or if we did so to offer burnt offerings or
grain offerings or peace offerings on it, may the LORD himself take vengeance.
Jos 22:24 No, but we did it from fear that in time to come your children might say to our children, 'What have
you to do with the LORD, the God of Israel?
Jos 22:25 For the LORD has made the Jordan a boundary between us and you, you people of Reuben and
people of Gad. You have no portion in the LORD.' So your children might make our children cease to worship
the LORD.
Jos 22:26 Therefore we said, 'Let us now build an altar, not for burnt offering, nor for sacrifice,
Jos 22:27 but to be a witness between us and you, and between our generations after us, that we do perform
the service of the LORD in his presence with our burnt offerings and sacrifices and peace offerings, so your
children will not say to our children in time to come, "You have no portion in the LORD."'
Jos 22:28 And we thought, If this should be said to us or to our descendants in time to come, we should say,
'Behold, the copy of the altar of the LORD, which our fathers made, not for burnt offerings, nor for sacrifice, but
to be a witness between us and you.'
Jos 22:29 Far be it from us that we should rebel against the LORD and turn away this day from following the
LORD by building an altar for burnt offering, grain offering, or sacrifice, other than the altar of the LORD our God
that stands before his tabernacle!"
Jos 22:30 When Phinehas the priest and the chiefs of the congregation, the heads of the families of Israel who
were with him, heard the words that the people of Reuben and the people of Gad and the people of Manasseh
spoke, it was good in their eyes.
Jos 22:31 And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest said to the people of Reuben and the people of Gad and
the people of Manasseh, "Today we know that the LORD is in our midst, because you have not committed this
breach of faith against the LORD. Now you have delivered the people of Israel from the hand of the LORD."
Jos 22:32 Then Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, and the chiefs, returned from the people of Reuben and
the people of Gad in the land of Gilead to the land of Canaan, to the people of Israel, and brought back word to
them.
Jos 22:33 And the report was good in the eyes of the people of Israel. And the people of Israel blessed God and
spoke no more of making war against them to destroy the land where the people of Reuben and the people of
Gad were settled.
Jos 22:34 The people of Reuben and the people of Gad called the altar Witness, "For," they said, "it is a witness
between us that the LORD is God."
Jos 23:1 A long time afterward, when the LORD had given rest to Israel from all their surrounding enemies, and
Joshua was old and well advanced in years,
Jos 23:2 Joshua summoned all Israel, its elders and heads, its judges and officers, and said to them, "I am now
old and well advanced in years.
Jos 23:3 And you have seen all that the LORD your God has done to all these nations for your sake, for it is the
LORD your God who has fought for you.
Jos 23:4 Behold, I have allotted to you as an inheritance for your tribes those nations that remain, along with all
the nations that I have already cut off, from the Jordan to the Great Sea in the west.
Jos 23:5 The LORD your God will push them back before you and drive them out of your sight. And you shall
possess their land, just as the LORD your God promised you.
Jos 23:6 Therefore, be very strong to keep and to do all that is written in the Book of the Law of Moses, turning
aside from it neither to the right hand nor to the left,
Jos 23:7 that you may not mix with these nations remaining among you or make mention of the names of their
gods or swear by them or serve them or bow down to them,
Jos 23:8 but you shall cling to the LORD your God just as you have done to this day.Jos 23:9 For the LORD has driven out before you great and strong nations. And as for you, no man has been
able to stand before you to this day.
Jos 23:10 One man of you puts to flight a thousand, since it is the LORD your God who fights for you, just as he
promised you.
Jos 23:11 Be very careful, therefore, to love the LORD your God.
Jos 23:12 For if you turn back and cling to the remnant of these nations remaining among you and make
marriages with them, so that you associate with them and they with you,
Jos 23:13 know for certain that the LORD your God will no longer drive out these nations before you, but they
shall be a snare and a trap for you, a whip on your sides and thorns in your eyes, until you perish from off this
good ground that the LORD your God has given you.
Jos 23:14 "And now I am about to go the way of all the earth, and you know in your hearts and souls, all of you,
that not one word has failed of all the good things that the LORD your God promised concerning you. All have
come to pass for you; not one of them has failed.
Jos 23:15 But just as all the good things that the LORD your God promised concerning you have been fulfilled
for you, so the LORD will bring upon you all the evil things, until he has destroyed you from off this good land
that the LORD your God has given you,
Jos 23:16 if you transgress the covenant of the LORD your God, which he commanded you, and go and serve
other gods and bow down to them. Then the anger of the LORD will be kindled against you, and you shall perish
quickly from off the good land that he has given to you."
Jos 24:1 Joshua gathered all the tribes of Israel to Shechem and summoned the elders, the heads, the judges,
and the officers of Israel. And they presented themselves before God.
Jos 24:2 And Joshua said to all the people, "Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, 'Long ago, your fathers
lived beyond the Euphrates, Terah, the father of Abraham and of Nahor; and they served other gods.
Jos 24:3 Then I took your father Abraham from beyond the River and led him through all the land of Canaan,
and made his offspring many. I gave him Isaac.
Jos 24:4 And to Isaac I gave Jacob and Esau. And I gave Esau the hill country of Seir to possess, but Jacob
and his children went down to Egypt.
Jos 24:5 And I sent Moses and Aaron, and I plagued Egypt with what I did in the midst of it, and afterward I
brought you out.
Jos 24:6 "'Then I brought your fathers out of Egypt, and you came to the sea. And the Egyptians pursued your
fathers with chariots and horsemen to the Red Sea.
Jos 24:7 And when they cried to the LORD, he put darkness between you and the Egyptians and made the sea
come upon them and cover them; and your eyes saw what I did in Egypt. And you lived in the wilderness a long
time.
Jos 24:8 Then I brought you to the land of the Amorites, who lived on the other side of the Jordan. They fought
with you, and I gave them into your hand, and you took possession of their land, and I destroyed them before
you.
Jos 24:9 Then Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, arose and fought against Israel. And he sent and invited
Balaam the son of Beor to curse you,
Jos 24:10 but I would not listen to Balaam. Indeed, he blessed you. So I delivered you out of his hand.
Jos 24:11 And you went over the Jordan and came to Jericho, and the leaders of Jericho fought against you,
and also the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Girgashites, the Hivites, and the
Jebusites. And I gave them into your hand.
Jos 24:12 And I sent the hornet before you, which drove them out before you, the two kings of the Amorites; it
was not by your sword or by your bow.
Jos 24:13 I gave you a land on which you had not labored and cities that you had not built, and you dwell in
them. You eat the fruit of vineyards and olive orchards that you did not plant.'
Jos 24:14 "Now therefore fear the LORD and serve him in sincerity and in faithfulness. Put away the gods that
your fathers served beyond the River and in Egypt, and serve the LORD.
Jos 24:15 And if it is evil in your eyes to serve the LORD, choose this day whom you will serve, whether the
gods your fathers served in the region beyond the River, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell.
But as for me and my house, we will serve the LORD."
Jos 24:16 Then the people answered, "Far be it from us that we should forsake the LORD to serve other gods,
Jos 24:17 for it is the LORD our God who brought us and our fathers up from the land of Egypt, out of the house
of slavery, and who did those great signs in our sight and preserved us in all the way that we went, and among
all the peoples through whom we passed.
Jos 24:18 And the LORD drove out before us all the peoples, the Amorites who lived in the land. Therefore we
also will serve the LORD, for he is our God."
Jos 24:19 But Joshua said to the people, "You are not able to serve the LORD, for he is a holy God. He is ajealous God; he will not forgive your transgressions or your sins.
Jos 24:20 If you forsake the LORD and serve foreign gods, then he will turn and do you harm and consume you,
after having done you good."
Jos 24:21 And the people said to Joshua, "No, but we will serve the LORD."
Jos 24:22 Then Joshua said to the people, "You are witnesses against yourselves that you have chosen the
LORD, to serve him." And they said, "We are witnesses."
Jos 24:23 He said, "Then put away the foreign gods that are among you, and incline your heart to the LORD,
the God of Israel."
Jos 24:24 And the people said to Joshua, "The LORD our God we will serve, and his voice we will obey."
Jos 24:25 So Joshua made a covenant with the people that day, and put in place statutes and rules for them at
Shechem.
Jos 24:26 And Joshua wrote these words in the Book of the Law of God. And he took a large stone and set it up
there under the terebinth that was by the sanctuary of the LORD.
Jos 24:27 And Joshua said to all the people, "Behold, this stone shall be a witness against us, for it has heard
all the words of the LORD that he spoke to us. Therefore it shall be a witness against you, lest you deal falsely
with your God."
Jos 24:28 So Joshua sent the people away, every man to his inheritance.
Jos 24:29 After these things Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of the LORD, died, being 110 years old.
Jos 24:30 And they buried him in his own inheritance at Timnath-serah, which is in the hill country of Ephraim,
north of the mountain of Gaash.
Jos 24:31 Israel served the LORD all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua
and had known all the work that the LORD did for Israel.
Jos 24:32 As for the bones of Joseph, which the people of Israel brought up from Egypt, they buried them at
Shechem, in the piece of land that Jacob bought from the sons of Hamor the father of Shechem for a hundred
pieces of money. It became an inheritance of the descendants of Joseph.
Jos 24:33 And Eleazar the son of Aaron died, and they buried him at Gibeah, the town of Phinehas his son,
which had been given him in the hill country of Ephraim.
Jdg 1:1 After the death of Joshua, the people of Israel inquired of the LORD, "Who shall go up first for us
against the Canaanites, to fight against them?"
Jdg 1:2 The LORD said, "Judah shall go up; behold, I have given the land into his hand."
Jdg 1:3 And Judah said to Simeon his brother, "Come up with me into the territory allotted to me, that we may
fight against the Canaanites. And I likewise will go with you into the territory allotted to you." So Simeon went
with him.
Jdg 1:4 Then Judah went up and the LORD gave the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand, and they
defeated 10,000 of them at Bezek.
Jdg 1:5 They found Adoni-bezek at Bezek and fought against him and defeated the Canaanites and the
Perizzites.
Jdg 1:6 Adoni-bezek fled, but they pursued him and caught him and cut off his thumbs and his big toes.
Jdg 1:7 And Adoni-bezek said, "Seventy kings with their thumbs and their big toes cut off used to pick up scraps
under my table. As I have done, so God has repaid me." And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
Jdg 1:8 And the men of Judah fought against Jerusalem and captured it and struck it with the edge of the sword
and set the city on fire.
Jdg 1:9 And afterward the men of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites who lived in the hill country,
in the Negeb, and in the lowland.
Jdg 1:10 And Judah went against the Canaanites who lived in Hebron (now the name of Hebron was formerly
Kiriath-arba), and they defeated Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai.
Jdg 1:11 From there they went against the inhabitants of Debir. The name of Debir was formerly Kiriath-sepher.
Jdg 1:12 And Caleb said, "He who attacks Kiriath-sepher and captures it, I will give him Achsah my daughter for
a wife."
Jdg 1:13 And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, captured it. And he gave him Achsah his
daughter for a wife.
Jdg 1:14 When she came to him, she urged him to ask her father for a field. And she dismounted from her
donkey, and Caleb said to her, "What do you want?"
Jdg 1:15 She said to him, "Give me a blessing. Since you have set me in the land of the Negeb, give me also
springs of water." And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
Jdg 1:16 And the descendants of the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, went up with the people of Judah from the
city of palms into the wilderness of Judah, which lies in the Negeb near Arad, and they went and settled with the
people.
Jdg 1:17 And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they defeated the Canaanites who inhabited Zephathand devoted it to destruction. So the name of the city was called Hormah.
Jdg 1:18 Judah also captured Gaza with its territory, and Ashkelon with its territory, and Ekron with its territory.
Jdg 1:19 And the LORD was with Judah, and he took possession of the hill country, but he could not drive out
the inhabitants of the plain because they had chariots of iron.
Jdg 1:20 And Hebron was given to Caleb, as Moses had said. And he drove out from it the three sons of Anak.
Jdg 1:21 But the people of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites who lived in Jerusalem, so the Jebusites
have lived with the people of Benjamin in Jerusalem to this day.
Jdg 1:22 The house of Joseph also went up against Bethel, and the LORD was with them.
Jdg 1:23 And the house of Joseph scouted out Bethel. ( Now the name of the city was formerly Luz.)
Jdg 1:24 And the spies saw a man coming out of the city, and they said to him, "Please show us the way into
the city, and we will deal kindly with you."
Jdg 1:25 And he showed them the way into the city. And they struck the city with the edge of the sword, but they
let the man and all his family go.
Jdg 1:26 And the man went to the land of the Hittites and built a city and called its name Luz. That is its name to
this day.
Jdg 1:27 Manasseh did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shean and its villages, or Taanach and its villages,
or the inhabitants of Dor and its villages, or the inhabitants of Ibleam and its villages, or the inhabitants of
Megiddo and its villages, for the Canaanites persisted in dwelling in that land.
Jdg 1:28 When Israel grew strong, they put the Canaanites to forced labor, but did not drive them out
completely.
Jdg 1:29 And Ephraim did not drive out the Canaanites who lived in Gezer, so the Canaanites lived in Gezer
among them.
Jdg 1:30 Zebulun did not drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, or the inhabitants of Nahalol, so the Canaanites
lived among them, but became subject to forced labor.
Jdg 1:31 Asher did not drive out the inhabitants of Acco, or the inhabitants of Sidon or of Ahlab or of Achzib or
of Helbah or of Aphik or of Rehob,
Jdg 1:32 so the Asherites lived among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land, for they did not drive them
out.
Jdg 1:33 Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, or the inhabitants of Beth-anath, so they
lived among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land. Nevertheless, the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and of
Beth-anath became subject to forced labor for them.
Jdg 1:34 The Amorites pressed the people of Dan back into the hill country, for they did not allow them to come
down to the plain.
Jdg 1:35 The Amorites persisted in dwelling in Mount Heres, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim, but the hand of the
house of Joseph rested heavily on them, and they became subject to forced labor.
Jdg 1:36 And the border of the Amorites ran from the ascent of Akrabbim, from Sela and upward.
Jdg 2:1 Now the angel of the LORD went up from Gilgal to Bochim. And he said, "I brought you up from Egypt
and brought you into the land that I swore to give to your fathers. I said, 'I will never break my covenant with you,
Jdg 2:2 and you shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; you shall break down their altars.' But
you have not obeyed my voice. What is this you have done?
Jdg 2:3 So now I say, I will not drive them out before you, but they shall become thorns in your sides, and their
gods shall be a snare to you."
Jdg 2:4 As soon as the angel of the LORD spoke these words to all the people of Israel, the people lifted up
their voices and wept.
Jdg 2:5 And they called the name of that place Bochim. And they sacrificed there to the LORD.
Jdg 2:6 When Joshua dismissed the people, the people of Israel went each to his inheritance to take
possession of the land.
Jdg 2:7 And the people served the LORD all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders who outlived
Joshua, who had seen all the great work that the LORD had done for Israel.
Jdg 2:8 And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of the LORD, died at the age of 110 years.
Jdg 2:9 And they buried him within the boundaries of his inheritance in Timnath-heres, in the hill country of
Ephraim, north of the mountain of Gaash.
Jdg 2:10 And all that generation also were gathered to their fathers. And there arose another generation after
them who did not know the LORD or the work that he had done for Israel.
Jdg 2:11 And the people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the LORD and served the Baals.
Jdg 2:12 And they abandoned the LORD, the God of their fathers, who had brought them out of the land of
Egypt. They went after other gods, from among the gods of the peoples who were around them, and bowed
down to them. And they provoked the LORD to anger.
Jdg 2:13 They abandoned the LORD and served the Baals and the Ashtaroth.Jdg 2:14 So the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and he gave them over to plunderers, who
plundered them. And he sold them into the hand of their surrounding enemies, so that they could no longer
withstand their enemies.
Jdg 2:15 Whenever they marched out, the hand of the LORD was against them for harm, as the LORD had
warned, and as the LORD had sworn to them. And they were in terrible distress.
Jdg 2:16 Then the LORD raised up judges, who saved them out of the hand of those who plundered them.
Jdg 2:17 Yet they did not listen to their judges, for they whored after other gods and bowed down to them. They
soon turned aside from the way in which their fathers had walked, who had obeyed the commandments of the
LORD, and they did not do so.
Jdg 2:18 Whenever the LORD raised up judges for them, the LORD was with the judge, and he saved them
from the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge. For the LORD was moved to pity by their groaning
because of those who afflicted and oppressed them.
Jdg 2:19 But whenever the judge died, they turned back and were more corrupt than their fathers, going after
other gods, serving them and bowing down to them. They did not drop any of their practices or their stubborn
ways.
Jdg 2:20 So the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and he said, "Because this people have
transgressed my covenant that I commanded their fathers and have not obeyed my voice,
Jdg 2:21 I will no longer drive out before them any of the nations that Joshua left when he died,
Jdg 2:22 in order to test Israel by them, whether they will take care to walk in the way of the LORD as their
fathers did, or not."
Jdg 2:23 So the LORD left those nations, not driving them out quickly, and he did not give them into the hand of
Joshua.
Jdg 3:1 Now these are the nations that the LORD left, to test Israel by them, that is, all in Israel who had not
experienced all the wars in Canaan.
Jdg 3:2 It was only in order that the generations of the people of Israel might know war, to teach war to those
who had not known it before.
Jdg 3:3 These are the nations: the five lords of the Philistines and all the Canaanites and the Sidonians and the
Hivites who lived on Mount Lebanon, from Mount Baal-hermon as far as Lebo-hamath.
Jdg 3:4 They were for the testing of Israel, to know whether Israel would obey the commandments of the LORD,
which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses.
Jdg 3:5 So the people of Israel lived among the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the
Hivites, and the Jebusites.
Jdg 3:6 And their daughters they took to themselves for wives, and their own daughters they gave to their sons,
and they served their gods.
Jdg 3:7 And the people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the LORD. They forgot the LORD their God and
served the Baals and the Asheroth.
Jdg 3:8 Therefore the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Cushanrishathaim king of Mesopotamia. And the people of Israel served Cushan-rishathaim eight years.
Jdg 3:9 But when the people of Israel cried out to the LORD, the LORD raised up a deliverer for the people of
Israel, who saved them, Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
Jdg 3:10 The Spirit of the LORD was upon him, and he judged Israel. He went out to war, and the LORD gave
Cushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia into his hand. And his hand prevailed over Cushan-rishathaim.
Jdg 3:11 So the land had rest forty years. Then Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
Jdg 3:12 And the people of Israel again did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, and the LORD strengthened
Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done what was evil in the sight of the LORD.
Jdg 3:13 He gathered to himself the Ammonites and the Amalekites, and went and defeated Israel. And they
took possession of the city of palms.
Jdg 3:14 And the people of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years.
Jdg 3:15 Then the people of Israel cried out to the LORD, and the LORD raised up for them a deliverer, Ehud,
the son of Gera, the Benjaminite, a left-handed man. The people of Israel sent tribute by him to Eglon the king of
Moab.
Jdg 3:16 And Ehud made for himself a sword with two edges, a cubit in length, and he bound it on his right thigh
under his clothes.
Jdg 3:17 And he presented the tribute to Eglon king of Moab. Now Eglon was a very fat man.
Jdg 3:18 And when Ehud had finished presenting the tribute, he sent away the people who carried the tribute.
Jdg 3:19 But he himself turned back at the idols near Gilgal and said, "I have a secret message for you, O king."
And he commanded, "Silence." And all his attendants went out from his presence.
Jdg 3:20 And Ehud came to him as he was sitting alone in his cool roof chamber. And Ehud said, "I have a
message from God for you." And he arose from his seat.Jdg 3:21 And Ehud reached with his left hand, took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly.
Jdg 3:22 And the hilt also went in after the blade, and the fat closed over the blade, for he did not pull the sword
out of his belly; and the dung came out.
Jdg 3:23 Then Ehud went out into the porch and closed the doors of the roof chamber behind him and locked
them.
Jdg 3:24 When he had gone, the servants came, and when they saw that the doors of the roof chamber were
locked, they thought, "Surely he is relieving himself in the closet of the cool chamber."
Jdg 3:25 And they waited till they were embarrassed. But when he still did not open the doors of the roof
chamber, they took the key and opened them, and there lay their lord dead on the floor.
Jdg 3:26 Ehud escaped while they delayed, and he passed beyond the idols and escaped to Seirah.
Jdg 3:27 When he arrived, he sounded the trumpet in the hill country of Ephraim. Then the people of Israel went
down with him from the hill country, and he was their leader.
Jdg 3:28 And he said to them, "Follow after me, for the LORD has given your enemies the Moabites into your
hand." So they went down after him and seized the fords of the Jordan against the Moabites and did not allow
anyone to pass over.
Jdg 3:29 And they killed at that time about 10,000 of the Moabites, all strong, able-bodied men; not a man
escaped.
Jdg 3:30 So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest for eighty years.
Jdg 3:31 After him was Shamgar the son of Anath, who killed 600 of the Philistines with an oxgoad, and he also
saved Israel.
Jdg 4:1 And the people of Israel again did what was evil in the sight of the LORD after Ehud died.
Jdg 4:2 And the LORD sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor. The commander
of his army was Sisera, who lived in Harosheth-hagoyim.
Jdg 4:3 Then the people of Israel cried out to the LORD for help, for he had 900 chariots of iron and he
oppressed the people of Israel cruelly for twenty years.
Jdg 4:4 Now Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lappidoth, was judging Israel at that time.
Jdg 4:5 She used to sit under the palm of Deborah between Ramah and Bethel in the hill country of Ephraim,
and the people of Israel came up to her for judgment.
Jdg 4:6 She sent and summoned Barak the son of Abinoam from Kedesh-naphtali and said to him, "Has not the
LORD, the God of Israel, commanded you, 'Go, gather your men at Mount Tabor, taking 10,000 from the people
of Naphtali and the people of Zebulun.
Jdg 4:7 And I will draw out Sisera, the general of Jabin's army, to meet you by the river Kishon with his chariots
and his troops, and I will give him into your hand'?"
Jdg 4:8 Barak said to her, "If you will go with me, I will go, but if you will not go with me, I will not go."
Jdg 4:9 And she said, "I will surely go with you. Nevertheless, the road on which you are going will not lead to
your glory, for the LORD will sell Sisera into the hand of a woman." Then Deborah arose and went with Barak to
Kedesh.
Jdg 4:10 And Barak called out Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh. And 10,000 men went up at his heels, and
Deborah went up with him.
Jdg 4:11 Now Heber the Kenite had separated from the Kenites, the descendants of Hobab the father-in-law of
Moses, and had pitched his tent as far away as the oak in Zaanannim, which is near Kedesh.
Jdg 4:12 When Sisera was told that Barak the son of Abinoam had gone up to Mount Tabor,
Jdg 4:13 Sisera called out all his chariots, 900 chariots of iron, and all the men who were with him, from
Harosheth-hagoyim to the river Kishon.
Jdg 4:14 And Deborah said to Barak, "Up! For this is the day in which the LORD has given Sisera into your
hand. Does not the LORD go out before you?" So Barak went down from Mount Tabor with 10,000 men
following him.
Jdg 4:15 And the LORD routed Sisera and all his chariots and all his army before Barak by the edge of the
sword. And Sisera got down from his chariot and fled away on foot.
Jdg 4:16 And Barak pursued the chariots and the army to Harosheth-hagoyim, and all the army of Sisera fell by
the edge of the sword; not a man was left.
Jdg 4:17 But Sisera fled away on foot to the tent of Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, for there was peace
between Jabin the king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite.
Jdg 4:18 And Jael came out to meet Sisera and said to him, "Turn aside, my lord; turn aside to me; do not be
afraid." So he turned aside to her into the tent, and she covered him with a rug.
Jdg 4:19 And he said to her, "Please give me a little water to drink, for I am thirsty." So she opened a skin of
milk and gave him a drink and covered him.
Jdg 4:20 And he said to her, "Stand at the opening of the tent, and if any man comes and asks you, 'Is anyone
here?' say, 'No.'"Jdg 4:21 But Jael the wife of Heber took a tent peg, and took a hammer in her hand. Then she went softly to
him and drove the peg into his temple until it went down into the ground while he was lying fast asleep from
weariness. So he died.
Jdg 4:22 And behold, as Barak was pursuing Sisera, Jael went out to meet him and said to him, "Come, and I
will show you the man whom you are seeking." So he went in to her tent, and there lay Sisera dead, with the tent
peg in his temple.
Jdg 4:23 So on that day God subdued Jabin the king of Canaan before the people of Israel.
Jdg 4:24 And the hand of the people of Israel pressed harder and harder against Jabin the king of Canaan, until
they destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
Jdg 5:1 Then sang Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam on that day:
Jdg 5:2 "That the leaders took the lead in Israel, that the people offered themselves willingly, bless the LORD!
Jdg 5:3 "Hear, O kings; give ear, O princes; to the LORD I will sing; I will make melody to the LORD, the God of
Israel.
Jdg 5:4 "LORD, when you went out from Seir, when you marched from the region of Edom, the earth trembled
and the heavens dropped, yes, the clouds dropped water.
Jdg 5:5 The mountains quaked before the LORD, even Sinai before the LORD, the God of Israel.
Jdg 5:6 "In the days of Shamgar, son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were abandoned, and travelers
kept to the byways.
Jdg 5:7 The villagers ceased in Israel; they ceased to be until I arose; I, Deborah, arose as a mother in Israel.
Jdg 5:8 When new gods were chosen, then war was in the gates. Was shield or spear to be seen among forty
thousand in Israel?
Jdg 5:9 My heart goes out to the commanders of Israel who offered themselves willingly among the people.
Bless the LORD.
Jdg 5:10 "Tell of it, you who ride on white donkeys, you who sit on rich carpets and you who walk by the way.
Jdg 5:11 To the sound of musicians at the watering places, there they repeat the righteous triumphs of the
LORD, the righteous triumphs of his villagers in Israel. "Then down to the gates marched the people of the
LORD.
Jdg 5:12 "Awake, awake, Deborah! Awake, awake, break out in a song! Arise, Barak, lead away your captives,
O son of Abinoam.
Jdg 5:13 Then down marched the remnant of the noble; the people of the LORD marched down for me against
the mighty.
Jdg 5:14 From Ephraim their root they marched down into the valley, following you, Benjamin, with your
kinsmen; from Machir marched down the commanders, and from Zebulun those who bear the lieutenant's staff;
Jdg 5:15 the princes of Issachar came with Deborah, and Issachar faithful to Barak; into the valley they rushed
at his heels. Among the clans of Reuben there were great searchings of heart.
Jdg 5:16 Why did you sit still among the sheepfolds, to hear the whistling for the flocks? Among the clans of
Reuben there were great searchings of heart.
Jdg 5:17 Gilead stayed beyond the Jordan; and Dan, why did he stay with the ships? Asher sat still at the coast
of the sea, staying by his landings.
Jdg 5:18 Zebulun is a people who risked their lives to the death; Naphtali, too, on the heights of the field.
Jdg 5:19 "The kings came, they fought; then fought the kings of Canaan, at Taanach, by the waters of Megiddo;
they got no spoils of silver.
Jdg 5:20 From heaven the stars fought, from their courses they fought against Sisera.
Jdg 5:21 The torrent Kishon swept them away, the ancient torrent, the torrent Kishon. March on, my soul, with
might!
Jdg 5:22 "Then loud beat the horses' hoofs with the galloping, galloping of his steeds.
Jdg 5:23 "Curse Meroz, says the angel of the LORD, curse its inhabitants thoroughly, because they did not
come to the help of the LORD, to the help of the LORD against the mighty.
Jdg 5:24 "Most blessed of women be Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, of tent-dwelling women most blessed.
Jdg 5:25 He asked water and she gave him milk; she brought him curds in a noble's bowl.
Jdg 5:26 She sent her hand to the tent peg and her right hand to the workmen's mallet; she struck Sisera; she
crushed his head; she shattered and pierced his temple.
Jdg 5:27 Between her feet he sank, he fell, he lay still; between her feet he sank, he fell; where he sank, there
he fell- dead.
Jdg 5:28 "Out of the window she peered, the mother of Sisera wailed through the lattice: 'Why is his chariot so
long in coming? Why tarry the hoofbeats of his chariots?'
Jdg 5:29 Her wisest princesses answer, indeed, she answers herself,
Jdg 5:30 'Have they not found and divided the spoil?- A womb or two for every man; spoil of dyed materials for
Sisera, spoil of dyed materials embroidered, two pieces of dyed work embroidered for the neck as spoil?'Jdg 5:31 "So may all your enemies perish, O LORD! But your friends be like the sun as he rises in his might."
And the land had rest for forty years.
Jdg 6:1 The people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, and the LORD gave them into the hand
of Midian seven years.
Jdg 6:2 And the hand of Midian overpowered Israel, and because of Midian the people of Israel made for
themselves the dens that are in the mountains and the caves and the strongholds.
Jdg 6:3 For whenever the Israelites planted crops, the Midianites and the Amalekites and the people of the East
would come up against them.
Jdg 6:4 They would encamp against them and devour the produce of the land, as far as Gaza, and leave no
sustenance in Israel and no sheep or ox or donkey.
Jdg 6:5 For they would come up with their livestock and their tents; they would come like locusts in numberboth they and their camels could not be counted- so that they laid waste the land as they came in.
Jdg 6:6 And Israel was brought very low because of Midian. And the people of Israel cried out for help to the
LORD.
Jdg 6:7 When the people of Israel cried out to the LORD on account of the Midianites,
Jdg 6:8 the LORD sent a prophet to the people of Israel. And he said to them, "Thus says the LORD, the God of
Israel: I led you up from Egypt and brought you out of the house of bondage.
Jdg 6:9 And I delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians and from the hand of all who oppressed you, and
drove them out before you and gave you their land.
Jdg 6:10 And I said to you, 'I am the LORD your God; you shall not fear the gods of the Amorites in whose land
you dwell.' But you have not obeyed my voice."
Jdg 6:11 Now the angel of the LORD came and sat under the terebinth at Ophrah, which belonged to Joash the
Abiezrite, while his son Gideon was beating out wheat in the winepress to hide it from the Midianites.
Jdg 6:12 And the angel of the LORD appeared to him and said to him, "The LORD is with you, O mighty man of
valor."
Jdg 6:13 And Gideon said to him, "Please, sir, if the LORD is with us, why then has all this happened to us?
And where are all his wonderful deeds that our fathers recounted to us, saying, 'Did not the LORD bring us up
from Egypt?' But now the LORD has forsaken us and given us into the hand of Midian."
Jdg 6:14 And the LORD turned to him and said, "Go in this might of yours and save Israel from the hand of
Midian; do not I send you?"
Jdg 6:15 And he said to him, "Please, Lord, how can I save Israel? Behold, my clan is the weakest in
Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house."
Jdg 6:16 And the LORD said to him, "But I will be with you, and you shall strike the Midianites as one man."
Jdg 6:17 And he said to him, "If now I have found favor in your eyes, then show me a sign that it is you who
speaks with me.
Jdg 6:18 Please do not depart from here until I come to you and bring out my present and set it before you."
And he said, "I will stay till you return."
Jdg 6:19 So Gideon went into his house and prepared a young goat and unleavened cakes from an ephah of
flour. The meat he put in a basket, and the broth he put in a pot, and brought them to him under the terebinth
and presented them.
Jdg 6:20 And the angel of God said to him, "Take the meat and the unleavened cakes, and put them on this
rock, and pour the broth over them." And he did so.
Jdg 6:21 Then the angel of the LORD reached out the tip of the staff that was in his hand and touched the meat
and the unleavened cakes. And fire sprang up from the rock and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes.
And the angel of the LORD vanished from his sight.
Jdg 6:22 Then Gideon perceived that he was the angel of the LORD. And Gideon said, "Alas, O Lord GOD! For
now I have seen the angel of the LORD face to face."
Jdg 6:23 But the LORD said to him, "Peace be to you. Do not fear; you shall not die."
Jdg 6:24 Then Gideon built an altar there to the LORD and called it, The LORD is Peace. To this day it still
stands at Ophrah, which belongs to the Abiezrites.
Jdg 6:25 That night the LORD said to him, "Take your father's bull, and the second bull seven years old, and
pull down the altar of Baal that your father has, and cut down the Asherah that is beside it
Jdg 6:26 and build an altar to the LORD your God on the top of the stronghold here, with stones laid in due
order. Then take the second bull and offer it as a burnt offering with the wood of the Asherah that you shall cut
down."
Jdg 6:27 So Gideon took ten men of his servants and did as the LORD had told him. But because he was too
afraid of his family and the men of the town to do it by day, he did it by night.
Jdg 6:28 When the men of the town rose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down, and
the Asherah beside it was cut down, and the second bull was offered on the altar that had been built.Jdg 6:29 And they said to one another, "Who has done this thing?" And after they had searched and inquired,
they said, "Gideon the son of Joash has done this thing."
Jdg 6:30 Then the men of the town said to Joash, "Bring out your son, that he may die, for he has broken down
the altar of Baal and cut down the Asherah beside it."
Jdg 6:31 But Joash said to all who stood against him, "Will you contend for Baal? Or will you save him?
Whoever contends for him shall be put to death by morning. If he is a god, let him contend for himself, because
his altar has been broken down."
Jdg 6:32 Therefore on that day Gideon was called Jerubbaal, that is to say, "Let Baal contend against him,"
because he broke down his altar.
Jdg 6:33 Now all the Midianites and the Amalekites and the people of the East came together, and they crossed
the Jordan and encamped in the Valley of Jezreel.
Jdg 6:34 But the Spirit of the LORD clothed Gideon, and he sounded the trumpet, and the Abiezrites were
called out to follow him.
Jdg 6:35 And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh, and they too were called out to follow him. And he
sent messengers to Asher, Zebulun, and Naphtali, and they went up to meet them.
Jdg 6:36 Then Gideon said to God, "If you will save Israel by my hand, as you have said,
Jdg 6:37 behold, I am laying a fleece of wool on the threshing floor. If there is dew on the fleece alone, and it is
dry on all the ground, then I shall know that you will save Israel by my hand, as you have said."
Jdg 6:38 And it was so. When he rose early next morning and squeezed the fleece, he wrung enough dew from
the fleece to fill a bowl with water.
Jdg 6:39 Then Gideon said to God, "Let not your anger burn against me; let me speak just once more. Please
let me test just once more with the fleece. Please let it be dry on the fleece only, and on all the ground let there
be dew."
Jdg 6:40 And God did so that night; and it was dry on the fleece only, and on all the ground there was dew.
Jdg 7:1 Then Jerubbaal (that is, Gideon) and all the people who were with him rose early and encamped beside
the spring of Harod. And the camp of Midian was north of them, by the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
Jdg 7:2 The LORD said to Gideon, "The people with you are too many for me to give the Midianites into their
hand, lest Israel boast over me, saying, 'My own hand has saved me.'
Jdg 7:3 Now therefore proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, 'Whoever is fearful and trembling, let him
return home and hurry away from Mount Gilead.'"Then 22,000 of the people returned, and 10,000 remained.
Jdg 7:4 And the LORD said to Gideon, "The people are still too many. Take them down to the water, and I will
test them for you there, and anyone of whom I say to you, 'This one shall go with you,' shall go with you, and
anyone of whom I say to you, 'This one shall not go with you,' shall not go."
Jdg 7:5 So he brought the people down to the water. And the LORD said to Gideon, "Every one who laps the
water with his tongue, as a dog laps, you shall set by himself. Likewise, every one who kneels down to drink."
Jdg 7:6 And the number of those who lapped, putting their hands to their mouths, was 300 men, but all the rest
of the people knelt down to drink water.
Jdg 7:7 And the LORD said to Gideon, "With the 300 men who lapped I will save you and give the Midianites
into your hand, and let all the others go every man to his home."
Jdg 7:8 So the people took provisions in their hands, and their trumpets. And he sent all the rest of Israel every
man to his tent, but retained the 300 men. And the camp of Midian was below him in the valley.
Jdg 7:9 That same night the LORD said to him, "Arise, go down against the camp, for I have given it into your
hand.
Jdg 7:10 But if you are afraid to go down, go down to the camp with Purah your servant.
Jdg 7:11 And you shall hear what they say, and afterward your hands shall be strengthened to go down against
the camp." Then he went down with Purah his servant to the outposts of the armed men who were in the camp.
Jdg 7:12 And the Midianites and the Amalekites and all the people of the East lay along the valley like locusts in
abundance, and their camels were without number, as the sand that is on the seashore in abundance.
Jdg 7:13 When Gideon came, behold, a man was telling a dream to his comrade. And he said, "Behold, I
dreamed a dream, and behold, a cake of barley bread tumbled into the camp of Midian and came to the tent and
struck it so that it fell and turned it upside down, so that the tent lay flat."
Jdg 7:14 And his comrade answered, "This is no other than the sword of Gideon the son of Joash, a man of
Israel; God has given into his hand Midian and all the camp."
Jdg 7:15 As soon as Gideon heard the telling of the dream and its interpretation, he worshiped. And he returned
to the camp of Israel and said, "Arise, for the LORD has given the host of Midian into your hand."
Jdg 7:16 And he divided the 300 men into three companies and put trumpets into the hands of all of them and
empty jars, with torches inside the jars.
Jdg 7:17 And he said to them, "Look at me, and do likewise. When I come to the outskirts of the camp, do as I
do.Jdg 7:18 When I blow the trumpet, I and all who are with me, then blow the trumpets also on every side of all
the camp and shout, 'For the LORD and for Gideon.'"
Jdg 7:19 So Gideon and the hundred men who were with him came to the outskirts of the camp at the beginning
of the middle watch, when they had just set the watch. And they blew the trumpets and smashed the jars that
were in their hands.
Jdg 7:20 Then the three companies blew the trumpets and broke the jars. They held in their left hands the
torches, and in their right hands the trumpets to blow. And they cried out, "A sword for the LORD and for
Gideon!"
Jdg 7:21 Every man stood in his place around the camp, and all the army ran. They cried out and fled.
Jdg 7:22 When they blew the 300 trumpets, the LORD set every man's sword against his comrade and against
all the army. And the army fled as far as Beth-shittah toward Zererah, as far as the border of Abel-meholah, by
Tabbath.
Jdg 7:23 And the men of Israel were called out from Naphtali and from Asher and from all Manasseh, and they
pursued after Midian.
Jdg 7:24 Gideon sent messengers throughout all the hill country of Ephraim, saying, "Come down against the
Midianites and capture the waters against them, as far as Beth-barah, and also the Jordan." So all the men of
Ephraim were called out, and they captured the waters as far as Beth-barah, and also the Jordan.
Jdg 7:25 And they captured the two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb. They killed Oreb at the rock of Oreb, and
Zeeb they killed at the winepress of Zeeb. Then they pursued Midian, and they brought the heads of Oreb and
Zeeb to Gideon across the Jordan.
Jdg 8:1 Then the men of Ephraim said to him, "What is this that you have done to us, not to call us when you
went to fight with Midian?" And they accused him fiercely.
Jdg 8:2 And he said to them, "What have I done now in comparison with you? Is not the gleaning of the grapes
of Ephraim better than the grape harvest of Abiezer?
Jdg 8:3 God has given into your hands the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb. What have I been able to do in
comparison with you?" Then their anger against him subsided when he said this.
Jdg 8:4 And Gideon came to the Jordan and crossed over, he and the 300 men who were with him, exhausted
yet pursuing.
Jdg 8:5 So he said to the men of Succoth, "Please give loaves of bread to the people who follow me, for they
are exhausted, and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian."
Jdg 8:6 And the officials of Succoth said, "Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna already in your hand, that we
should give bread to your army?"
Jdg 8:7 So Gideon said, "Well then, when the LORD has given Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand, I will flail
your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers."
Jdg 8:8 And from there he went up to Penuel, and spoke to them in the same way, and the men of Penuel
answered him as the men of Succoth had answered.
Jdg 8:9 And he said to the men of Penuel, "When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower."
Jdg 8:10 Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor with their army, about 15,000 men, all who were left of all
the army of the people of the East, for there had fallen 120,000 men who drew the sword.
Jdg 8:11 And Gideon went up by the way of the tent dwellers east of Nobah and Jogbehah and attacked the
army, for the army felt secure.
Jdg 8:12 And Zebah and Zalmunna fled, and he pursued them and captured the two kings of Midian, Zebah and
Zalmunna, and he threw all the army into a panic.
Jdg 8:13 Then Gideon the son of Joash returned from the battle by the ascent of Heres.
Jdg 8:14 And he captured a young man of Succoth and questioned him. And he wrote down for him the officials
and elders of Succoth, seventy-seven men.
Jdg 8:15 And he came to the men of Succoth and said, "Behold Zebah and Zalmunna, about whom you taunted
me, saying, 'Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna already in your hand, that we should give bread to your men
who are exhausted?'"
Jdg 8:16 And he took the elders of the city, and he took thorns of the wilderness and briers and with them taught
the men of Succoth a lesson.
Jdg 8:17 And he broke down the tower of Penuel and killed the men of the city.
Jdg 8:18 Then he said to Zebah and Zalmunna, "Where are the men whom you killed at Tabor?" They
answered, "As you are, so were they. Every one of them resembled the son of a king."
Jdg 8:19 And he said, "They were my brothers, the sons of my mother. As the LORD lives, if you had saved
them alive, I would not kill you."
Jdg 8:20 So he said to Jether his firstborn, "Rise and kill them!" But the young man did not draw his sword, for
he was afraid, because he was still a young man.
Jdg 8:21 Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, "Rise yourself and fall upon us, for as the man is, so is his strength."And Gideon arose and killed Zebah and Zalmunna, and he took the crescent ornaments that were on the necks
of their camels.
Jdg 8:22 Then the men of Israel said to Gideon, "Rule over us, you and your son and your grandson also, for
you have saved us from the hand of Midian."
Jdg 8:23 Gideon said to them, "I will not rule over you, and my son will not rule over you; the LORD will rule
over you."
Jdg 8:24 And Gideon said to them, "Let me make a request of you: every one of you give me the earrings from
his spoil." (For they had golden earrings, because they were Ishmaelites.)
Jdg 8:25 And they answered, "We will willingly give them." And they spread a cloak, and every man threw in it
the earrings of his spoil.
Jdg 8:26 And the weight of the golden earrings that he requested was 1,700 shekels of gold, besides the
crescent ornaments and the pendants and the purple garments worn by the kings of Midian, and besides the
collars that were around the necks of their camels.
Jdg 8:27 And Gideon made an ephod of it and put it in his city, in Ophrah. And all Israel whored after it there,
and it became a snare to Gideon and to his family.
Jdg 8:28 So Midian was subdued before the people of Israel, and they raised their heads no more. And the land
had rest forty years in the days of Gideon.
Jdg 8:29 Jerubbaal the son of Joash went and lived in his own house.
Jdg 8:30 Now Gideon had seventy sons, his own offspring, for he had many wives.
Jdg 8:31 And his concubine who was in Shechem also bore him a son, and he called his name Abimelech.
Jdg 8:32 And Gideon the son of Joash died in a good old age and was buried in the tomb of Joash his father, at
Ophrah of the Abiezrites.
Jdg 8:33 As soon as Gideon died, the people of Israel turned again and whored after the Baals and made Baalberith their god.
Jdg 8:34 And the people of Israel did not remember the LORD their God, who had delivered them from the hand
of all their enemies on every side,
Jdg 8:35 and they did not show steadfast love to the family of Jerubbaal (that is, Gideon) in return for all the
good that he had done to Israel.
Jdg 9:1 Now Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal went to Shechem to his mother's relatives and said to them and to
the whole clan of his mother's family,
Jdg 9:2 "Say in the ears of all the leaders of Shechem, 'Which is better for you, that all seventy of the sons of
Jerubbaal rule over you, or that one rule over you?' Remember also that I am your bone and your flesh."
Jdg 9:3 And his mother's relatives spoke all these words on his behalf in the ears of all the leaders of Shechem,
and their hearts inclined to follow Abimelech, for they said, "He is our brother."
Jdg 9:4 And they gave him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal-berith with which Abimelech hired
worthless and reckless fellows, who followed him.
Jdg 9:5 And he went to his father's house at Ophrah and killed his brothers the sons of Jerubbaal, seventy men,
on one stone. But Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaal was left, for he hid himself.
Jdg 9:6 And all the leaders of Shechem came together, and all Beth-millo, and they went and made Abimelech
king, by the oak of the pillar at Shechem.
Jdg 9:7 When it was told to Jotham, he went and stood on top of Mount Gerizim and cried aloud and said to
them, "Listen to me, you leaders of Shechem, that God may listen to you.
Jdg 9:8 The trees once went out to anoint a king over them, and they said to the olive tree, 'Reign over us.'
Jdg 9:9 But the olive tree said to them, 'Shall I leave my abundance, by which gods and men are honored, and
go hold sway over the trees?'
Jdg 9:10 And the trees said to the fig tree, 'You come and reign over us.'
Jdg 9:11 But the fig tree said to them, 'Shall I leave my sweetness and my good fruit and go hold sway over the
trees?'
Jdg 9:12 And the trees said to the vine, 'You come and reign over us.'
Jdg 9:13 But the vine said to them, 'Shall I leave my wine that cheers God and men and go hold sway over the
trees?'
Jdg 9:14 Then all the trees said to the bramble, 'You come and reign over us.'
Jdg 9:15 And the bramble said to the trees, 'If in good faith you are anointing me king over you, then come and
take refuge in my shade, but if not, let fire come out of the bramble and devour the cedars of Lebanon.'
Jdg 9:16 "Now therefore, if you acted in good faith and integrity when you made Abimelech king, and if you
have dealt well with Jerubbaal and his house and have done to him as his deeds deservedJdg 9:17 for my father fought for you and risked his life and delivered you from the hand of Midian,
Jdg 9:18 and you have risen up against my father's house this day and have killed his sons, seventy men on
one stone, and have made Abimelech, the son of his female servant, king over the leaders of Shechem,because he is your relativeJdg 9:19 if you then have acted in good faith and integrity with Jerubbaal and with his house this day, then
rejoice in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in you.
Jdg 9:20 But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech and devour the leaders of Shechem and Beth-millo; and let
fire come out from the leaders of Shechem and from Beth-millo and devour Abimelech."
Jdg 9:21 And Jotham ran away and fled and went to Beer and lived there, because of Abimelech his brother.
Jdg 9:22 Abimelech ruled over Israel three years.
Jdg 9:23 And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the leaders of Shechem, and the leaders of
Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech,
Jdg 9:24 that the violence done to the seventy sons of Jerubbaal might come, and their blood be laid on
Abimelech their brother, who killed them, and on the men of Shechem, who strengthened his hands to kill his
brothers.
Jdg 9:25 And the leaders of Shechem put men in ambush against him on the mountaintops, and they robbed all
who passed by them along that way. And it was told to Abimelech.
Jdg 9:26 And Gaal the son of Ebed moved into Shechem with his relatives, and the leaders of Shechem put
confidence in him.
Jdg 9:27 And they went out into the field and gathered the grapes from their vineyards and trod them and held a
festival; and they went into the house of their god and ate and drank and reviled Abimelech.
Jdg 9:28 And Gaal the son of Ebed said, "Who is Abimelech, and who are we of Shechem, that we should serve
him? Is he not the son of Jerubbaal, and is not Zebul his officer? Serve the men of Hamor the father of
Shechem; but why should we serve him?
Jdg 9:29 Would that this people were under my hand! Then I would remove Abimelech. I would say to
Abimelech, 'Increase your army, and come out.'"
Jdg 9:30 When Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal the son of Ebed, his anger was kindled.
Jdg 9:31 And he sent messengers to Abimelech secretly, saying, "Behold, Gaal the son of Ebed and his
relatives have come to Shechem, and they are stirring up the city against you.
Jdg 9:32 Now therefore, go by night, you and the people who are with you, and set an ambush in the field.
Jdg 9:33 Then in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, rise early and rush upon the city. And when he and the
people who are with him come out against you, you may do to them as your hand finds to do."
Jdg 9:34 So Abimelech and all the men who were with him rose up by night and set an ambush against
Shechem in four companies.
Jdg 9:35 And Gaal the son of Ebed went out and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city, and Abimelech
and the people who were with him rose from the ambush.
Jdg 9:36 And when Gaal saw the people, he said to Zebul, "Look, people are coming down from the
mountaintops!" And Zebul said to him, "You mistake the shadow of the mountains for men."
Jdg 9:37 Gaal spoke again and said, "Look, people are coming down from the center of the land, and one
company is coming from the direction of the Diviners' Oak."
Jdg 9:38 Then Zebul said to him, "Where is your mouth now, you who said, 'Who is Abimelech, that we should
serve him?' Are not these the people whom you despised? Go out now and fight with them."
Jdg 9:39 And Gaal went out at the head of the leaders of Shechem and fought with Abimelech.
Jdg 9:40 And Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him. And many fell wounded, up to the entrance of the
gate.
Jdg 9:41 And Abimelech lived at Arumah, and Zebul drove out Gaal and his relatives, so that they could not
dwell at Shechem.
Jdg 9:42 On the following day, the people went out into the field, and Abimelech was told.
Jdg 9:43 He took his people and divided them into three companies and set an ambush in the fields. And he
looked and saw the people coming out of the city. So he rose against them and killed them.
Jdg 9:44 Abimelech and the company that was with him rushed forward and stood at the entrance of the gate of
the city, while the two companies rushed upon all who were in the field and killed them.
Jdg 9:45 And Abimelech fought against the city all that day. He captured the city and killed the people who were
in it, and he razed the city and sowed it with salt.
Jdg 9:46 When all the leaders of the Tower of Shechem heard of it, they entered the stronghold of the house of
El-berith.
Jdg 9:47 Abimelech was told that all the leaders of the Tower of Shechem were gathered together.
Jdg 9:48 And Abimelech went up to Mount Zalmon, he and all the people who were with him. And Abimelech
took an axe in his hand and cut down a bundle of brushwood and took it up and laid it on his shoulder. And he
said to the men who were with him, "What you have seen me do, hurry and do as I have done."
Jdg 9:49 So every one of the people cut down his bundle and following Abimelech put it against the stronghold,
and they set the stronghold on fire over them, so that all the people of the Tower of Shechem also died, about1,000 men and women.
Jdg 9:50 Then Abimelech went to Thebez and encamped against Thebez and captured it.
Jdg 9:51 But there was a strong tower within the city, and all the men and women and all the leaders of the city
fled to it and shut themselves in, and they went up to the roof of the tower.
Jdg 9:52 And Abimelech came to the tower and fought against it and drew near to the door of the tower to burn
it with fire.
Jdg 9:53 And a certain woman threw an upper millstone on Abimelech's head and crushed his skull.
Jdg 9:54 Then he called quickly to the young man his armor-bearer and said to him, "Draw your sword and kill
me, lest they say of me, 'A woman killed him.'" And his young man thrust him through, and he died.
Jdg 9:55 And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, everyone departed to his home.
Jdg 9:56 Thus God returned the evil of Abimelech, which he committed against his father in killing his seventy
brothers.
Jdg 9:57 And God also made all the evil of the men of Shechem return on their heads, and upon them came the
curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal.
Jdg 10:1 After Abimelech there arose to save Israel Tola the son of Puah, son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, and
he lived at Shamir in the hill country of Ephraim.
Jdg 10:2 And he judged Israel twenty-three years. Then he died and was buried at Shamir.
Jdg 10:3 After him arose Jair the Gileadite, who judged Israel twenty-two years.
Jdg 10:4 And he had thirty sons who rode on thirty donkeys, and they had thirty cities, called Havvoth-jair to this
day, which are in the land of Gilead.
Jdg 10:5 And Jair died and was buried in Kamon.
Jdg 10:6 The people of Israel again did what was evil in the sight of the LORD and served the Baals and the
Ashtaroth, the gods of Syria, the gods of Sidon, the gods of Moab, the gods of the Ammonites, and the gods of
the Philistines. And they forsook the LORD and did not serve him.
Jdg 10:7 So the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines
and into the hand of the Ammonites,
Jdg 10:8 and they crushed and oppressed the people of Israel that year. For eighteen years they oppressed all
the people of Israel who were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
Jdg 10:9 And the Ammonites crossed the Jordan to fight also against Judah and against Benjamin and against
the house of Ephraim, so that Israel was severely distressed.
Jdg 10:10 And the people of Israel cried out to the LORD, saying, "We have sinned against you, because we
have forsaken our God and have served the Baals."
Jdg 10:11 And the LORD said to the people of Israel, "Did I not save you from the Egyptians and from the
Amorites, from the Ammonites and from the Philistines?
Jdg 10:12 The Sidonians also, and the Amalekites and the Maonites oppressed you, and you cried out to me,
and I saved you out of their hand.
Jdg 10:13 Yet you have forsaken me and served other gods; therefore I will save you no more.
Jdg 10:14 Go and cry out to the gods whom you have chosen; let them save you in the time of your distress."
Jdg 10:15 And the people of Israel said to the LORD, "We have sinned; do to us whatever seems good to you.
Only please deliver us this day."
Jdg 10:16 So they put away the foreign gods from among them and served the LORD, and he became
impatient over the misery of Israel.
Jdg 10:17 Then the Ammonites were called to arms, and they encamped in Gilead. And the people of Israel
came together, and they encamped at Mizpah.
Jdg 10:18 And the people, the leaders of Gilead, said one to another, "Who is the man who will begin to fight
against the Ammonites? He shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead."
Jdg 11:1 Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty warrior, but he was the son of a prostitute. Gilead was the
father of Jephthah.
Jdg 11:2 And Gilead's wife also bore him sons. And when his wife's sons grew up, they drove Jephthah out and
said to him, "You shall not have an inheritance in our father's house, for you are the son of another woman."
Jdg 11:3 Then Jephthah fled from his brothers and lived in the land of Tob, and worthless fellows collected
around Jephthah and went out with him.
Jdg 11:4 After a time the Ammonites made war against Israel.
Jdg 11:5 And when the Ammonites made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to bring Jephthah from
the land of Tob.
Jdg 11:6 And they said to Jephthah, "Come and be our leader, that we may fight with the Ammonites."
Jdg 11:7 But Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, "Did you not hate me and drive me out of my father's house?
Why have you come to me now when you are in distress?"
Jdg 11:8 And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, "That is why we have turned to you now, that you may gowith us and fight with the Ammonites and be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead."
Jdg 11:9 Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, "If you bring me home again to fight with the Ammonites, and
the LORD gives them over to me, I will be your head."
Jdg 11:10 And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, "The LORD will be witness between us, if we do not do as
you say."
Jdg 11:11 So Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and leader over them.
And Jephthah spoke all his words before the LORD at Mizpah.
Jdg 11:12 Then Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the Ammonites and said, "What do you have against
me, that you have come to me to fight against my land?"
Jdg 11:13 And the king of the Ammonites answered the messengers of Jephthah, "Because Israel on coming
up from Egypt took away my land, from the Arnon to the Jabbok and to the Jordan; now therefore restore it
peaceably."
Jdg 11:14 Jephthah again sent messengers to the king of the Ammonites
Jdg 11:15 and said to him, "Thus says Jephthah: Israel did not take away the land of Moab or the land of the
Ammonites,
Jdg 11:16 but when they came up from Egypt, Israel went through the wilderness to the Red Sea and came to
Kadesh.
Jdg 11:17 Israel then sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, 'Please let us pass through your land,' but
the king of Edom would not listen. And they sent also to the king of Moab, but he would not consent. So Israel
remained at Kadesh.
Jdg 11:18 "Then they journeyed through the wilderness and went around the land of Edom and the land of
Moab and arrived on the east side of the land of Moab and camped on the other side of the Arnon. But they did
not enter the territory of Moab, for the Arnon was the boundary of Moab.
Jdg 11:19 Israel then sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon, and Israel said to him,
'Please let us pass through your land to our country,'
Jdg 11:20 but Sihon did not trust Israel to pass through his territory, so Sihon gathered all his people together
and encamped at Jahaz and fought with Israel.
Jdg 11:21 And the LORD, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they
defeated them. So Israel took possession of all the land of the Amorites, who inhabited that country.
Jdg 11:22 And they took possession of all the territory of the Amorites from the Arnon to the Jabbok and from
the wilderness to the Jordan.
Jdg 11:23 So then the LORD, the God of Israel, dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel; and
are you to take possession of them?
Jdg 11:24 Will you not possess what Chemosh your god gives you to possess? And all that the LORD our God
has dispossessed before us, we will possess.
Jdg 11:25 Now are you any better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? Did he ever contend against
Israel, or did he ever go to war with them?
Jdg 11:26 While Israel lived in Heshbon and its villages, and in Aroer and its villages, and in all the cities that
are on the banks of the Arnon, 300 years, why did you not deliver them within that time?
Jdg 11:27 I therefore have not sinned against you, and you do me wrong by making war on me. The LORD, the
Judge, decide this day between the people of Israel and the people of Ammon."
Jdg 11:28 But the king of the Ammonites did not listen to the words of Jephthah that he sent to him.
Jdg 11:29 Then the Spirit of the LORD was upon Jephthah, and he passed through Gilead and Manasseh and
passed on to Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead he passed on to the Ammonites.
Jdg 11:30 And Jephthah made a vow to the LORD and said, "If you will give the Ammonites into my hand,
Jdg 11:31 then whatever comes out from the doors of my house to meet me when I return in peace from the
Ammonites shall be the LORD's, and I will offer it up for a burnt offering."
Jdg 11:32 So Jephthah crossed over to the Ammonites to fight against them, and the LORD gave them into his
hand.
Jdg 11:33 And he struck them from Aroer to the neighborhood of Minnith, twenty cities, and as far as Abelkeramim, with a great blow. So the Ammonites were subdued before the people of Israel.
Jdg 11:34 Then Jephthah came to his home at Mizpah. And behold, his daughter came out to meet him with
tambourines and with dances. She was his only child; beside her he had neither son nor daughter.
Jdg 11:35 And as soon as he saw her, he tore his clothes and said, "Alas, my daughter! You have brought me
very low, and you have become the cause of great trouble to me. For I have opened my mouth to the LORD, and
I cannot take back my vow."
Jdg 11:36 And she said to him, "My father, you have opened your mouth to the LORD; do to me according to
what has gone out of your mouth, now that the LORD has avenged you on your enemies, on the Ammonites."
Jdg 11:37 So she said to her father, "Let this thing be done for me: leave me alone two months, that I may go upand down on the mountains and weep for my virginity, I and my companions."
Jdg 11:38 So he said, "Go." Then he sent her away for two months, and she departed, she and her
companions, and wept for her virginity on the mountains.
Jdg 11:39 And at the end of two months, she returned to her father, who did with her according to his vow that
he had made. She had never known a man, and it became a custom in Israel
Jdg 11:40 that the daughters of Israel went year by year to lament the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four
days in the year.
Jdg 12:1 The men of Ephraim were called to arms, and they crossed to Zaphon and said to Jephthah, "Why did
you cross over to fight against the Ammonites and did not call us to go with you? We will burn your house over
you with fire."
Jdg 12:2 And Jephthah said to them, "I and my people had a great dispute with the Ammonites, and when I
called you, you did not save me from their hand.
Jdg 12:3 And when I saw that you would not save me, I took my life in my hand and crossed over against the
Ammonites, and the LORD gave them into my hand. Why then have you come up to me this day to fight against
me?"
Jdg 12:4 Then Jephthah gathered all the men of Gilead and fought with Ephraim. And the men of Gilead struck
Ephraim, because they said, "You are fugitives of Ephraim, you Gileadites, in the midst of Ephraim and
Manasseh."
Jdg 12:5 And the Gileadites captured the fords of the Jordan against the Ephraimites. And when any of the
fugitives of Ephraim said, "Let me go over," the men of Gilead said to him, "Are you an Ephraimite?" When he
said, "No,"
Jdg 12:6 they said to him, "Then say Shibboleth," and he said, "Sibboleth," for he could not pronounce it right.
Then they seized him and slaughtered him at the fords of the Jordan. At that time 42,000 of the Ephraimites fell.
Jdg 12:7 Jephthah judged Israel six years. Then Jephthah the Gileadite died and was buried in his city in
Gilead.
Jdg 12:8 After him Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel.
Jdg 12:9 He had thirty sons, and thirty daughters he gave in marriage outside his clan, and thirty daughters he
brought in from outside for his sons. And he judged Israel seven years.
Jdg 12:10 Then Ibzan died and was buried at Bethlehem.
Jdg 12:11 After him Elon the Zebulunite judged Israel, and he judged Israel ten years.
Jdg 12:12 Then Elon the Zebulunite died and was buried at Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
Jdg 12:13 After him Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite judged Israel.
Jdg 12:14 He had forty sons and thirty grandsons, who rode on seventy donkeys, and he judged Israel eight
years.
Jdg 12:15 Then Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died and was buried at Pirathon in the land of Ephraim,
in the hill country of the Amalekites.
Jdg 13:1 And the people of Israel again did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, so the LORD gave them into
the hand of the Philistines for forty years.
Jdg 13:2 There was a certain man of Zorah, of the tribe of the Danites, whose name was Manoah. And his wife
was barren and had no children.
Jdg 13:3 And the angel of the LORD appeared to the woman and said to her, "Behold, you are barren and have
not borne children, but you shall conceive and bear a son.
Jdg 13:4 Therefore be careful and drink no wine or strong drink, and eat nothing unclean,
Jdg 13:5 for behold, you shall conceive and bear a son. No razor shall come upon his head, for the child shall
be a Nazirite to God from the womb, and he shall begin to save Israel from the hand of the Philistines."
Jdg 13:6 Then the woman came and told her husband, "A man of God came to me, and his appearance was
like the appearance of the angel of God, very awesome. I did not ask him where he was from, and he did not tell
me his name,
Jdg 13:7 but he said to me, 'Behold, you shall conceive and bear a son. So then drink no wine or strong drink,
and eat nothing unclean, for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb to the day of his death.'"
Jdg 13:8 Then Manoah prayed to the LORD and said, "O Lord, please let the man of God whom you sent come
again to us and teach us what we are to do with the child who will be born."
Jdg 13:9 And God listened to the voice of Manoah, and the angel of God came again to the woman as she sat
in the field. But Manoah her husband was not with her.
Jdg 13:10 So the woman ran quickly and told her husband, "Behold, the man who came to me the other day
has appeared to me."
Jdg 13:11 And Manoah arose and went after his wife and came to the man and said to him, "Are you the man
who spoke to this woman?" And he said, "I am."
Jdg 13:12 And Manoah said, "Now when your words come true, what is to be the child's manner of life, andwhat is his mission?"
Jdg 13:13 And the angel of the LORD said to Manoah, "Of all that I said to the woman let her be careful.
Jdg 13:14 She may not eat of anything that comes from the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, or eat
any unclean thing. All that I commanded her let her observe."
Jdg 13:15 Manoah said to the angel of the LORD, "Please let us detain you and prepare a young goat for you."
Jdg 13:16 And the angel of the LORD said to Manoah, "If you detain me, I will not eat of your food. But if you
prepare a burnt offering, then offer it to the LORD." (For Manoah did not know that he was the angel of the
LORD.)
Jdg 13:17 And Manoah said to the angel of the LORD, "What is your name, so that, when your words come
true, we may honor you?"
Jdg 13:18 And the angel of the LORD said to him, "Why do you ask my name, seeing it is wonderful?"
Jdg 13:19 So Manoah took the young goat with the grain offering, and offered it on the rock to the LORD, to the
one who works wonders, and Manoah and his wife were watching.
Jdg 13:20 And when the flame went up toward heaven from the altar, the angel of the LORD went up in the
flame of the altar. Now Manoah and his wife were watching, and they fell on their faces to the ground.
Jdg 13:21 The angel of the LORD appeared no more to Manoah and to his wife. Then Manoah knew that he
was the angel of the LORD.
Jdg 13:22 And Manoah said to his wife, "We shall surely die, for we have seen God."
Jdg 13:23 But his wife said to him, "If the LORD had meant to kill us, he would not have accepted a burnt
offering and a grain offering at our hands, or shown us all these things, or now announced to us such things as
these."
Jdg 13:24 And the woman bore a son and called his name Samson. And the young man grew, and the LORD
blessed him.
Jdg 13:25 And the Spirit of the LORD began to stir him in Mahaneh-dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
Jdg 14:1 Samson went down to Timnah, and at Timnah he saw one of the daughters of the Philistines.
Jdg 14:2 Then he came up and told his father and mother, "I saw one of the daughters of the Philistines at
Timnah. Now get her for me as my wife."
Jdg 14:3 But his father and mother said to him, "Is there not a woman among the daughters of your relatives, or
among all our people, that you must go to take a wife from the uncircumcised Philistines?" But Samson said to
his father, "Get her for me, for she is right in my eyes."
Jdg 14:4 His father and mother did not know that it was from the LORD, for he was seeking an opportunity
against the Philistines. At that time the Philistines ruled over Israel.
Jdg 14:5 Then Samson went down with his father and mother to Timnah, and they came to the vineyards of
Timnah. And behold, a young lion came toward him roaring.
Jdg 14:6 Then the Spirit of the LORD rushed upon him, and although he had nothing in his hand, he tore the
lion in pieces as one tears a young goat. But he did not tell his father or his mother what he had done.
Jdg 14:7 Then he went down and talked with the woman, and she was right in Samson's eyes.
Jdg 14:8 After some days he returned to take her. And he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion, and
behold, there was a swarm of bees in the body of the lion, and honey.
Jdg 14:9 He scraped it out into his hands and went on, eating as he went. And he came to his father and mother
and gave some to them, and they ate. But he did not tell them that he had scraped the honey from the carcass of
the lion.
Jdg 14:10 His father went down to the woman, and Samson prepared a feast there, for so the young men used
to do.
Jdg 14:11 As soon as the people saw him, they brought thirty companions to be with him.
Jdg 14:12 And Samson said to them, "Let me now put a riddle to you. If you can tell me what it is, within the
seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give you thirty linen garments and thirty changes of clothes,
Jdg 14:13 but if you cannot tell me what it is, then you shall give me thirty linen garments and thirty changes of
clothes." And they said to him, "Put your riddle, that we may hear it."
Jdg 14:14 And he said to them, "Out of the eater came something to eat. Out of the strong came something
sweet." And in three days they could not solve the riddle.
Jdg 14:15 On the fourth day they said to Samson's wife, "Entice your husband to tell us what the riddle is, lest
we burn you and your father's house with fire. Have you invited us here to impoverish us?"
Jdg 14:16 And Samson's wife wept over him and said, "You only hate me; you do not love me. You have put a
riddle to my people, and you have not told me what it is." And he said to her, "Behold, I have not told my father
nor my mother, and shall I tell you?"
Jdg 14:17 She wept before him the seven days that their feast lasted, and on the seventh day he told her,
because she pressed him hard. Then she told the riddle to her people.
Jdg 14:18 And the men of the city said to him on the seventh day before the sun went down, "What is sweeterthan honey? What is stronger than a lion?" And he said to them, "If you had not plowed with my heifer, you
would not have found out my riddle."
Jdg 14:19 And the Spirit of the LORD rushed upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon and struck down thirty
men of the town and took their spoil and gave the garments to those who had told the riddle. In hot anger he
went back to his father's house.
Jdg 14:20 And Samson's wife was given to his companion, who had been his best man.
Jdg 15:1 After some days, at the time of wheat harvest, Samson went to visit his wife with a young goat. And he
said, "I will go in to my wife in the chamber." But her father would not allow him to go in.
Jdg 15:2 And her father said, "I really thought that you utterly hated her, so I gave her to your companion. Is not
her younger sister more beautiful than she? Please take her instead."
Jdg 15:3 And Samson said to them, "This time I shall be innocent in regard to the Philistines, when I do them
harm."
Jdg 15:4 So Samson went and caught 300 foxes and took torches. And he turned them tail to tail and put a
torch between each pair of tails.
Jdg 15:5 And when he had set fire to the torches, he let the foxes go into the standing grain of the Philistines
and set fire to the stacked grain and the standing grain, as well as the olive orchards.
Jdg 15:6 Then the Philistines said, "Who has done this?" And they said, "Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite,
because he has taken his wife and given her to his companion." And the Philistines came up and burned her and
her father with fire.
Jdg 15:7 And Samson said to them, "If this is what you do, I swear I will be avenged on you, and after that I will
quit."
Jdg 15:8 And he struck them hip and thigh with a great blow, and he went down and stayed in the cleft of the
rock of Etam.
Jdg 15:9 Then the Philistines came up and encamped in Judah and made a raid on Lehi.
Jdg 15:10 And the men of Judah said, "Why have you come up against us?" They said, "We have come up to
bind Samson, to do to him as he did to us."
Jdg 15:11 Then 3,000 men of Judah went down to the cleft of the rock of Etam, and said to Samson, "Do you
not know that the Philistines are rulers over us? What then is this that you have done to us?" And he said to
them, "As they did to me, so have I done to them."
Jdg 15:12 And they said to him, "We have come down to bind you, that we may give you into the hands of the
Philistines." And Samson said to them, "Swear to me that you will not attack me yourselves."
Jdg 15:13 They said to him, "No; we will only bind you and give you into their hands. We will surely not kill you."
So they bound him with two new ropes and brought him up from the rock.
Jdg 15:14 When he came to Lehi, the Philistines came shouting to meet him. Then the Spirit of the LORD
rushed upon him, and the ropes that were on his arms became as flax that has caught fire, and his bonds melted
off his hands.
Jdg 15:15 And he found a fresh jawbone of a donkey, and put out his hand and took it, and with it he struck
1,000 men.
Jdg 15:16 And Samson said, "With the jawbone of a donkey, heaps upon heaps, with the jawbone of a donkey
have I struck down a thousand men."
Jdg 15:17 As soon as he had finished speaking, he threw away the jawbone out of his hand. And that place was
called Ramath-lehi.
Jdg 15:18 And he was very thirsty, and he called upon the LORD and said, "You have granted this great
salvation by the hand of your servant, and shall I now die of thirst and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised?"
Jdg 15:19 And God split open the hollow place that is at Lehi, and water came out from it. And when he drank,
his spirit returned, and he revived. Therefore the name of it was called En-hakkore; it is at Lehi to this day.
Jdg 15:20 And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
Jdg 16:1 Samson went to Gaza, and there he saw a prostitute, and he went in to her.
Jdg 16:2 The Gazites were told, "Samson has come here." And they surrounded the place and set an ambush
for him all night at the gate of the city. They kept quiet all night, saying, "Let us wait till the light of the morning;
then we will kill him."
Jdg 16:3 But Samson lay till midnight, and at midnight he arose and took hold of the doors of the gate of the city
and the two posts, and pulled them up, bar and all, and put them on his shoulders and carried them to the top of
the hill that is in front of Hebron.
Jdg 16:4 After this he loved a woman in the Valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.
Jdg 16:5 And the lords of the Philistines came up to her and said to her, "Seduce him, and see where his great
strength lies, and by what means we may overpower him, that we may bind him to humble him. And we will each
give you 1,100 pieces of silver."
Jdg 16:6 So Delilah said to Samson, "Please tell me where your great strength lies, and how you might bebound, that one could subdue you."
Jdg 16:7 Samson said to her, "If they bind me with seven fresh bowstrings that have not been dried, then I shall
become weak and be like any other man."
Jdg 16:8 Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven fresh bowstrings that had not been dried, and
she bound him with them.
Jdg 16:9 Now she had men lying in ambush in an inner chamber. And she said to him, "The Philistines are upon
you, Samson!" But he snapped the bowstrings, as a thread of flax snaps when it touches the fire. So the secret
of his strength was not known.
Jdg 16:10 Then Delilah said to Samson, "Behold, you have mocked me and told me lies. Please tell me how
you might be bound."
Jdg 16:11 And he said to her, "If they bind me with new ropes that have not been used, then I shall become
weak and be like any other man."
Jdg 16:12 So Delilah took new ropes and bound him with them and said to him, "The Philistines are upon you,
Samson!" And the men lying in ambush were in an inner chamber. But he snapped the ropes off his arms like a
thread.
Jdg 16:13 Then Delilah said to Samson, "Until now you have mocked me and told me lies. Tell me how you
might be bound." And he said to her, "If you weave the seven locks of my head with the web and fasten it tight
with the pin, then I shall become weak and be like any other man."
Jdg 16:14 So while he slept, Delilah took the seven locks of his head and wove them into the web. And she
made them tight with the pin and said to him, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson!" But he awoke from his
sleep and pulled away the pin, the loom, and the web.
Jdg 16:15 And she said to him, "How can you say, 'I love you,' when your heart is not with me? You have
mocked me these three times, and you have not told me where your great strength lies."
Jdg 16:16 And when she pressed him hard with her words day after day, and urged him, his soul was vexed to
death.
Jdg 16:17 And he told her all his heart, and said to her, "A razor has never come upon my head, for I have been
a Nazirite to God from my mother's womb. If my head is shaved, then my strength will leave me, and I shall
become weak and be like any other man."
Jdg 16:18 When Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called the lords of the Philistines,
saying, "Come up again, for he has told me all his heart." Then the lords of the Philistines came up to her and
brought the money in their hands.
Jdg 16:19 She made him sleep on her knees. And she called a man and had him shave off the seven locks of
his head. Then she began to torment him, and his strength left him.
Jdg 16:20 And she said, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson!" And he awoke from his sleep and said, "I will
go out as at other times and shake myself free." But he did not know that the LORD had left him.
Jdg 16:21 And the Philistines seized him and gouged out his eyes and brought him down to Gaza and bound
him with bronze shackles. And he ground at the mill in the prison.
Jdg 16:22 But the hair of his head began to grow again after it had been shaved.
Jdg 16:23 Now the lords of the Philistines gathered to offer a great sacrifice to Dagon their god and to rejoice,
and they said, "Our god has given Samson our enemy into our hand."
Jdg 16:24 And when the people saw him, they praised their god. For they said, "Our god has given our enemy
into our hand, the ravager of our country, who has killed many of us."
Jdg 16:25 And when their hearts were merry, they said, "Call Samson, that he may entertain us." So they called
Samson out of the prison, and he entertained them. They made him stand between the pillars.
Jdg 16:26 And Samson said to the young man who held him by the hand, "Let me feel the pillars on which the
house rests, that I may lean against them."
Jdg 16:27 Now the house was full of men and women. All the lords of the Philistines were there, and on the roof
there were about 3,000 men and women, who looked on while Samson entertained.
Jdg 16:28 Then Samson called to the LORD and said, "O Lord GOD, please remember me and please
strengthen me only this once, O God, that I may be avenged on the Philistines for my two eyes."
Jdg 16:29 And Samson grasped the two middle pillars on which the house rested, and he leaned his weight
against them, his right hand on the one and his left hand on the other.
Jdg 16:30 And Samson said, "Let me die with the Philistines." Then he bowed with all his strength, and the
house fell upon the lords and upon all the people who were in it. So the dead whom he killed at his death were
more than those whom he had killed during his life.
Jdg 16:31 Then his brothers and all his family came down and took him and brought him up and buried him
between Zorah and Eshtaol in the tomb of Manoah his father. He had judged Israel twenty years.
Jdg 17:1 There was a man of the hill country of Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
Jdg 17:2 And he said to his mother, "The 1,100 pieces of silver that were taken from you, about which youuttered a curse, and also spoke it in my ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it." And his mother said,
"Blessed be my son by the LORD."
Jdg 17:3 And he restored the 1,100 pieces of silver to his mother. And his mother said, "I dedicate the silver to
the LORD from my hand for my son, to make a carved image and a metal image. Now therefore I will restore it to
you."
Jdg 17:4 So when he restored the money to his mother, his mother took 200 pieces of silver and gave it to the
silversmith, who made it into a carved image and a metal image. And it was in the house of Micah.
Jdg 17:5 And the man Micah had a shrine, and he made an ephod and household gods, and ordained one of
his sons, who became his priest.
Jdg 17:6 In those days there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes.
Jdg 17:7 Now there was a young man of Bethlehem in Judah, of the family of Judah, who was a Levite, and he
sojourned there.
Jdg 17:8 And the man departed from the town of Bethlehem in Judah to sojourn where he could find a place.
And as he journeyed, he came to the hill country of Ephraim to the house of Micah.
Jdg 17:9 And Micah said to him, "Where do you come from?" And he said to him, "I am a Levite of Bethlehem in
Judah, and I am going to sojourn where I may find a place."
Jdg 17:10 And Micah said to him, "Stay with me, and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give you ten
pieces of silver a year and a suit of clothes and your living." And the Levite went in.
Jdg 17:11 And the Levite was content to dwell with the man, and the young man became to him like one of his
sons.
Jdg 17:12 And Micah ordained the Levite, and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of
Micah.
Jdg 17:13 Then Micah said, "Now I know that the LORD will prosper me, because I have a Levite as priest."
Jdg 18:1 In those days there was no king in Israel. And in those days the tribe of the people of Dan was seeking
for itself an inheritance to dwell in, for until then no inheritance among the tribes of Israel had fallen to them.
Jdg 18:2 So the people of Dan sent five able men from the whole number of their tribe, from Zorah and from
Eshtaol, to spy out the land and to explore it. And they said to them, "Go and explore the land." And they came
to the hill country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
Jdg 18:3 When they were by the house of Micah, they recognized the voice of the young Levite. And they
turned aside and said to him, "Who brought you here? What are you doing in this place? What is your business
here?"
Jdg 18:4 And he said to them, "This is how Micah dealt with me: he has hired me, and I have become his
priest."
Jdg 18:5 And they said to him, "Inquire of God, please, that we may know whether the journey on which we are
setting out will succeed."
Jdg 18:6 And the priest said to them, "Go in peace. The journey on which you go is under the eye of the LORD."
Jdg 18:7 Then the five men departed and came to Laish and saw the people who were there, how they lived in
security, after the manner of the Sidonians, quiet and unsuspecting, lacking nothing that is in the earth and
possessing wealth, and how they were far from the Sidonians and had no dealings with anyone.
Jdg 18:8 And when they came to their brothers at Zorah and Eshtaol, their brothers said to them, "What do you
report?"
Jdg 18:9 They said, "Arise, and let us go up against them, for we have seen the land, and behold, it is very
good. And will you do nothing? Do not be slow to go, to enter in and possess the land.
Jdg 18:10 As soon as you go, you will come to an unsuspecting people. The land is spacious, for God has given
it into your hands, a place where there is no lack of anything that is in the earth."
Jdg 18:11 So 600 men of the tribe of Dan, armed with weapons of war, set out from Zorah and Eshtaol,
Jdg 18:12 and went up and encamped at Kiriath-jearim in Judah. On this account that place is called Mahanehdan to this day; behold, it is west of Kiriath-jearim.
Jdg 18:13 And they passed on from there to the hill country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
Jdg 18:14 Then the five men who had gone to scout out the country of Laish said to their brothers, "Do you
know that in these houses there are an ephod, household gods, a carved image, and a metal image? Now
therefore consider what you will do."
Jdg 18:15 And they turned aside there and came to the house of the young Levite, at the home of Micah, and
asked him about his welfare.
Jdg 18:16 Now the 600 men of the Danites, armed with their weapons of war, stood by the entrance of the gate.
Jdg 18:17 And the five men who had gone to scout out the land went up and entered and took the carved
image, the ephod, the household gods, and the metal image, while the priest stood by the entrance of the gate
with the 600 men armed with weapons of war.
Jdg 18:18 And when these went into Micah's house and took the carved image, the ephod, the household gods,and the metal image, the priest said to them, "What are you doing?"
Jdg 18:19 And they said to him, "Keep quiet; put your hand on your mouth and come with us and be to us a
father and a priest. Is it better for you to be priest to the house of one man, or to be priest to a tribe and clan in
Israel?"
Jdg 18:20 And the priest's heart was glad. He took the ephod and the household gods and the carved image
and went along with the people.
Jdg 18:21 So they turned and departed, putting the little ones and the livestock and the goods in front of them.
Jdg 18:22 When they had gone a distance from the home of Micah, the men who were in the houses near
Micah's house were called out, and they overtook the people of Dan.
Jdg 18:23 And they shouted to the people of Dan, who turned around and said to Micah, "What is the matter
with you, that you come with such a company?"
Jdg 18:24 And he said, "You take my gods that I made and the priest, and go away, and what have I left? How
then do you ask me, 'What is the matter with you?'"
Jdg 18:25 And the people of Dan said to him, "Do not let your voice be heard among us, lest angry fellows fall
upon you, and you lose your life with the lives of your household."
Jdg 18:26 Then the people of Dan went their way. And when Micah saw that they were too strong for him, he
turned and went back to his home.
Jdg 18:27 But the people of Dan took what Micah had made, and the priest who belonged to him, and they
came to Laish, to a people quiet and unsuspecting, and struck them with the edge of the sword and burned the
city with fire.
Jdg 18:28 And there was no deliverer because it was far from Sidon, and they had no dealings with anyone. It
was in the valley that belongs to Beth-rehob. Then they rebuilt the city and lived in it.
Jdg 18:29 And they named the city Dan, after the name of Dan their ancestor, who was born to Israel; but the
name of the city was Laish at the first.
Jdg 18:30 And the people of Dan set up the carved image for themselves, and Jonathan the son of Gershom,
son of Moses, and his sons were priests to the tribe of the Danites until the day of the captivity of the land.
Jdg 18:31 So they set up Micah's carved image that he made, as long as the house of God was at Shiloh.
Jdg 19:1 In those days, when there was no king in Israel, a certain Levite was sojourning in the remote parts of
the hill country of Ephraim, who took to himself a concubine from Bethlehem in Judah.
Jdg 19:2 And his concubine was unfaithful to him, and she went away from him to her father's house at
Bethlehem in Judah, and was there some four months.
Jdg 19:3 Then her husband arose and went after her, to speak kindly to her and bring her back. He had with
him his servant and a couple of donkeys. And she brought him into her father's house. And when the girl's father
saw him, he came with joy to meet him.
Jdg 19:4 And his father-in-law, the girl's father, made him stay, and he remained with him three days. So they
ate and drank and spent the night there.
Jdg 19:5 And on the fourth day they arose early in the morning, and he prepared to go, but the girl's father said
to his son-in-law, "Strengthen your heart with a morsel of bread, and after that you may go."
Jdg 19:6 So the two of them sat and ate and drank together. And the girl's father said to the man, "Be pleased
to spend the night, and let your heart be merry."
Jdg 19:7 And when the man rose up to go, his father-in-law pressed him, till he spent the night there again.
Jdg 19:8 And on the fifth day he arose early in the morning to depart. And the girl's father said, "Strengthen your
heart and wait until the day declines." So they ate, both of them.
Jdg 19:9 And when the man and his concubine and his servant rose up to depart, his father-in-law, the girl's
father, said to him, "Behold, now the day has waned toward evening. Please, spend the night. Behold, the day
draws to its close. Lodge here and let your heart be merry, and tomorrow you shall arise early in the morning for
your journey, and go home."
Jdg 19:10 But the man would not spend the night. He rose up and departed and arrived opposite Jebus (that is,
Jerusalem). He had with him a couple of saddled donkeys, and his concubine was with him.
Jdg 19:11 When they were near Jebus, the day was nearly over, and the servant said to his master, "Come
now, let us turn aside to this city of the Jebusites and spend the night in it."
Jdg 19:12 And his master said to him, "We will not turn aside into the city of foreigners, who do not belong to the
people of Israel, but we will pass on to Gibeah."
Jdg 19:13 And he said to his young man, "Come and let us draw near to one of these places and spend the
night at Gibeah or at Ramah."
Jdg 19:14 So they passed on and went their way. And the sun went down on them near Gibeah, which belongs
to Benjamin,
Jdg 19:15 and they turned aside there, to go in and spend the night at Gibeah. And he went in and sat down in
the open square of the city, for no one took them into his house to spend the night.Jdg 19:16 And behold, an old man was coming from his work in the field at evening. The man was from the hill
country of Ephraim, and he was sojourning in Gibeah. The men of the place were Benjaminites.
Jdg 19:17 And he lifted up his eyes and saw the traveler in the open square of the city. And the old man said,
"Where are you going? and where do you come from?"
Jdg 19:18 And he said to him, "We are passing from Bethlehem in Judah to the remote parts of the hill country
of Ephraim, from which I come. I went to Bethlehem in Judah, and I am going to the house of the Lord, but no
one has taken me into his house.
Jdg 19:19 We have straw and feed for our donkeys, with bread and wine for me and your female servant and
the young man with your servants. There is no lack of anything."
Jdg 19:20 And the old man said, "Peace be to you; I will care for all your wants. Only, do not spend the night in
the square."
Jdg 19:21 So he brought him into his house and gave the donkeys feed. And they washed their feet, and ate
and drank.
Jdg 19:22 As they were making their hearts merry, behold, the men of the city, worthless fellows, surrounded
the house, beating on the door. And they said to the old man, the master of the house, "Bring out the man who
came into your house, that we may know him."
Jdg 19:23 And the man, the master of the house, went out to them and said to them, "No, my brothers, do not
act so wickedly; since this man has come into my house, do not do this vile thing.
Jdg 19:24 Behold, here are my virgin daughter and his concubine. Let me bring them out now. Violate them and
do with them what seems good to you, but against this man do not do this outrageous thing."
Jdg 19:25 But the men would not listen to him. So the man seized his concubine and made her go out to them.
And they knew her and abused her all night until the morning. And as the dawn began to break, they let her go.
Jdg 19:26 And as morning appeared, the woman came and fell down at the door of the man's house where her
master was, until it was light.
Jdg 19:27 And her master rose up in the morning, and when he opened the doors of the house and went out to
go on his way, behold, there was his concubine lying at the door of the house, with her hands on the threshold.
Jdg 19:28 He said to her, "Get up, let us be going." But there was no answer. Then he put her on the donkey,
and the man rose up and went away to his home.
Jdg 19:29 And when he entered his house, he took a knife, and taking hold of his concubine he divided her, limb
by limb, into twelve pieces, and sent her throughout all the territory of Israel.
Jdg 19:30 And all who saw it said, "Such a thing has never happened or been seen from the day that the people
of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt until this day; consider it, take counsel, and speak."
Jdg 20:1 Then all the people of Israel came out, from Dan to Beer-sheba, including the land of Gilead, and the
congregation assembled as one man to the LORD at Mizpah.
Jdg 20:2 And the chiefs of all the people, of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the
people of God, 400,000 men on foot that drew the sword.
Jdg 20:3 (Now the people of Benjamin heard that the people of Israel had gone up to Mizpah.) And the people
of Israel said, "Tell us, how did this evil happen?"
Jdg 20:4 And the Levite, the husband of the woman who was murdered, answered and said, "I came to Gibeah
that belongs to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to spend the night.
Jdg 20:5 And the leaders of Gibeah rose against me and surrounded the house against me by night. They
meant to kill me, and they violated my concubine, and she is dead.
Jdg 20:6 So I took hold of my concubine and cut her in pieces and sent her throughout all the country of the
inheritance of Israel, for they have committed abomination and outrage in Israel.
Jdg 20:7 Behold, you people of Israel, all of you, give your advice and counsel here."
Jdg 20:8 And all the people arose as one man, saying, "None of us will go to his tent, and none of us will return
to his house.
Jdg 20:9 But now this is what we will do to Gibeah: we will go up against it by lot,
Jdg 20:10 and we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a
thousand, and a thousand of ten thousand, to bring provisions for the people, that when they come they may
repay Gibe-ah of Benjamin, for all the outrage that they have committed in Israel."
Jdg 20:11 So all the men of Israel gathered against the city, united as one man.
Jdg 20:12 And the tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, "What evil is this that has
taken place among you?
Jdg 20:13 Now therefore give up the men, the worthless fellows in Gibeah, that we may put them to death and
purge evil from Israel." But the Benjaminites would not listen to the voice of their brothers, the people of Israel.
Jdg 20:14 Then the people of Benjamin came together out of the cities to Gibeah to go out to battle against the
people of Israel.
Jdg 20:15 And the people of Benjamin mustered out of their cities on that day 26,000 men who drew the sword,besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who mustered 700 chosen men.
Jdg 20:16 Among all these were 700 chosen men who were left-handed; every one could sling a stone at a hair
and not miss.
Jdg 20:17 And the men of Israel, apart from Benjamin, mustered 400,000 men who drew the sword; all these
were men of war.
Jdg 20:18 The people of Israel arose and went up to Bethel and inquired of God, "Who shall go up first for us to
fight against the people of Benjamin?" And the LORD said, "Judah shall go up first."
Jdg 20:19 Then the people of Israel rose in the morning and encamped against Gibeah.
Jdg 20:20 And the men of Israel went out to fight against Benjamin, and the men of Israel drew up the battle line
against them at Gibeah.
Jdg 20:21 The people of Benjamin came out of Gibeah and destroyed on that day 22,000 men of the Israelites.
Jdg 20:22 But the people, the men of Israel, took courage, and again formed the battle line in the same place
where they had formed it on the first day.
Jdg 20:23 And the people of Israel went up and wept before the LORD until the evening. And they inquired of
the LORD, "Shall we again draw near to fight against our brothers, the people of Benjamin?" And the LORD
said, "Go up against them."
Jdg 20:24 So the people of Israel came near against the people of Benjamin the second day.
Jdg 20:25 And Benjamin went against them out of Gibeah the second day, and destroyed 18,000 men of the
people of Israel. All these were men who drew the sword.
Jdg 20:26 Then all the people of Israel, the whole army, went up and came to Bethel and wept. They sat there
before the LORD and fasted that day until evening, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the
LORD.
Jdg 20:27 And the people of Israel inquired of the LORD (for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those
days,
Jdg 20:28 and Phinehas the son of Eleazar, son of Aaron, ministered before it in those days), saying, "Shall we
go out once more to battle against our brothers, the people of Benjamin, or shall we cease?" And the LORD
said, "Go up, for tomorrow I will give them into your hand."
Jdg 20:29 So Israel set men in ambush around Gibeah.
Jdg 20:30 And the people of Israel went up against the people of Benjamin on the third day and set themselves
in array against Gibeah, as at other times.
Jdg 20:31 And the people of Benjamin went out against the people and were drawn away from the city. And as
at other times they began to strike and kill some of the people in the highways, one of which goes up to Bethel
and the other to Gibeah, and in the open country, about thirty men of Israel.
Jdg 20:32 And the people of Benjamin said, "They are routed before us, as at the first." But the people of Israel
said, "Let us flee and draw them away from the city to the highways."
Jdg 20:33 And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place and set themselves in array at Baal-tamar, and the
men of Israel who were in ambush rushed out of their place from Maareh-geba.
Jdg 20:34 And there came against Gibeah 10,000 chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle was hard, but the
Benjaminites did not know that disaster was close upon them.
Jdg 20:35 And the LORD defeated Benjamin before Israel, and the people of Israel destroyed 25,100 men of
Benjamin that day. All these were men who drew the sword.
Jdg 20:36 So the people of Benjamin saw that they were defeated. The men of Israel gave ground to Benjamin,
because they trusted the men in ambush whom they had set against Gibeah.
Jdg 20:37 Then the men in ambush hurried and rushed against Gibeah; the men in ambush moved out and
struck all the city with the edge of the sword.
Jdg 20:38 Now the appointed signal between the men of Israel and the men in the main ambush was that when
they made a great cloud of smoke rise up out of the city
Jdg 20:39 the men of Israel should turn in battle. Now Benjamin had begun to strike and kill about thirty men of
Israel. They said, "Surely they are defeated before us, as in the first battle."
Jdg 20:40 But when the signal began to rise out of the city in a column of smoke, the Benjaminites looked
behind them, and behold, the whole of the city went up in smoke to heaven.
Jdg 20:41 Then the men of Israel turned, and the men of Benjamin were dismayed, for they saw that disaster
was close upon them.
Jdg 20:42 Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel in the direction of the wilderness, but the
battle overtook them. And those who came out of the cities were destroying them in their midst.
Jdg 20:43 Surrounding the Benjaminites, they pursued them and trod them down from Nohah as far as opposite
Gibeah on the east.
Jdg 20:44 Eighteen thousand men of Benjamin fell, all of them men of valor.
Jdg 20:45 And they turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon. Five thousand men of themwere cut down in the highways. And they were pursued hard to Gidom, and 2,000 men of them were struck
down.
Jdg 20:46 So all who fell that day of Benjamin were 25,000 men who drew the sword, all of them men of valor.
Jdg 20:47 But 600 men turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon and remained at the rock
of Rimmon four months.
Jdg 20:48 And the men of Israel turned back against the people of Benjamin and struck them with the edge of
the sword, the city, men and beasts and all that they found. And all the towns that they found they set on fire.
Jdg 21:1 Now the men of Israel had sworn at Mizpah, "No one of us shall give his daughter in marriage to
Benjamin."
Jdg 21:2 And the people came to Bethel and sat there till evening before God, and they lifted up their voices
and wept bitterly.
Jdg 21:3 And they said, "O LORD, the God of Israel, why has this happened in Israel, that today there should be
one tribe lacking in Israel?"
Jdg 21:4 And the next day the people rose early and built there an altar and offered burnt offerings and peace
offerings.
Jdg 21:5 And the people of Israel said, "Which of all the tribes of Israel did not come up in the assembly to the
LORD?" For they had taken a great oath concerning him who did not come up to the LORD to Mizpah, saying,
"He shall surely be put to death."
Jdg 21:6 And the people of Israel had compassion for Benjamin their brother and said, "One tribe is cut off from
Israel this day.
Jdg 21:7 What shall we do for wives for those who are left, since we have sworn by the LORD that we will not
give them any of our daughters for wives?"
Jdg 21:8 And they said, "What one is there of the tribes of Israel that did not come up to the LORD to Mizpah?"
And behold, no one had come to the camp from Jabesh-gilead, to the assembly.
Jdg 21:9 For when the people were mustered, behold, not one of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead was there.
Jdg 21:10 So the congregation sent 12,000 of their bravest men there and commanded them, "Go and strike the
inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword; also the women and the little ones.
Jdg 21:11 This is what you shall do: every male and every woman that has lain with a male you shall devote to
destruction."
Jdg 21:12 And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead 400 young virgins who had not known a man
by lying with him, and they brought them to the camp at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
Jdg 21:13 Then the whole congregation sent word to the people of Benjamin who were at the rock of Rimmon
and proclaimed peace to them.
Jdg 21:14 And Benjamin returned at that time. And they gave them the women whom they had saved alive of
the women of Jabesh-gilead, but they were not enough for them.
Jdg 21:15 And the people had compassion on Benjamin because the LORD had made a breach in the tribes of
Israel.
Jdg 21:16 Then the elders of the congregation said, "What shall we do for wives for those who are left, since the
women are destroyed out of Benjamin?"
Jdg 21:17 And they said, "There must be an inheritance for the survivors of Benjamin, that a tribe not be blotted
out from Israel.
Jdg 21:18 Yet we cannot give them wives from our daughters." For the people of Israel had sworn, "Cursed be
he who gives a wife to Benjamin."
Jdg 21:19 So they said, "Behold, there is the yearly feast of the LORD at Shiloh, which is north of Bethel, on the
east of the highway that goes up from Bethel to Shechem, and south of Lebonah."
Jdg 21:20 And they commanded the people of Benjamin, saying, "Go and lie in ambush in the vineyards
Jdg 21:21 and watch. If the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in the dances, then come out of the
vineyards and snatch each man his wife from the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
Jdg 21:22 And when their fathers or their brothers come to complain to us, we will say to them, 'Grant them
graciously to us, because we did not take for each man of them his wife in battle, neither did you give them to
them, else you would now be guilty.'"
Jdg 21:23 And the people of Benjamin did so and took their wives, according to their number, from the dancers
whom they carried off. Then they went and returned to their inheritance and rebuilt the towns and lived in them.
Jdg 21:24 And the people of Israel departed from there at that time, every man to his tribe and family, and they
went out from there every man to his inheritance.
Jdg 21:25 In those days there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes.
Rut 1:1 In the days when the judges ruled there was a famine in the land, and a man of Bethlehem in Judah
went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons.
Rut 1:2 The name of the man was Elimelech and the name of his wife Naomi, and the names of his two sonswere Mahlon and Chilion. They were Ephrathites from Bethlehem in Judah. They went into the country of Moab
and remained there.
Rut 1:3 But Elimelech, the husband of Naomi, died, and she was left with her two sons.
Rut 1:4 These took Moabite wives; the name of the one was Orpah and the name of the other Ruth. They lived
there about ten years,
Rut 1:5 and both Mahlon and Chilion died, so that the woman was left without her two sons and her husband.
Rut 1:6 Then she arose with her daughters-in-law to return from the country of Moab, for she had heard in the
fields of Moab that the LORD had visited his people and given them food.
Rut 1:7 So she set out from the place where she was with her two daughters-in-law, and they went on the way
to return to the land of Judah.
Rut 1:8 But Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, "Go, return each of you to her mother's house. May the
LORD deal kindly with you, as you have dealt with the dead and with me.
Rut 1:9 The LORD grant that you may find rest, each of you in the house of her husband!" Then she kissed
them, and they lifted up their voices and wept.
Rut 1:10 And they said to her, "No, we will return with you to your people."
Rut 1:11 But Naomi said, "Turn back, my daughters; why will you go with me? Have I yet sons in my womb that
they may become your husbands?
Rut 1:12 Turn back, my daughters; go your way, for I am too old to have a husband. If I should say I have hope,
even if I should have a husband this night and should bear sons,
Rut 1:13 would you therefore wait till they were grown? Would you therefore refrain from marrying? No, my
daughters, for it is exceedingly bitter to me for your sake that the hand of the LORD has gone out against me."
Rut 1:14 Then they lifted up their voices and wept again. And Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clung to
her.
Rut 1:15 And she said, "See, your sister-in-law has gone back to her people and to her gods; return after your
sister-in-law."
Rut 1:16 But Ruth said, "Do not urge me to leave you or to return from following you. For where you go I will go,
and where you lodge I will lodge. Your people shall be my people, and your God my God.
Rut 1:17 Where you die I will die, and there will I be buried. May the LORD do so to me and more also if
anything but death parts me from you."
Rut 1:18 And when Naomi saw that she was determined to go with her, she said no more.
Rut 1:19 So the two of them went on until they came to Bethlehem. And when they came to Bethlehem, the
whole town was stirred because of them. And the women said, "Is this Naomi?"
Rut 1:20 She said to them, "Do not call me Naomi; call me Mara, for the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me.
Rut 1:21 I went away full, and the LORD has brought me back empty. Why call me Naomi, when the LORD has
testified against me and the Almighty has brought calamity upon me?"
Rut 1:22 So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabite her daughter-in-law with her, who returned from the country
of Moab. And they came to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley harvest.
Rut 2:1 Now Naomi had a relative of her husband's, a worthy man of the clan of Elimelech, whose name was
Boaz.
Rut 2:2 And Ruth the Moabite said to Naomi, "Let me go to the field and glean among the ears of grain after him
in whose sight I shall find favor." And she said to her, "Go, my daughter."
Rut 2:3 So she set out and went and gleaned in the field after the reapers, and she happened to come to the
part of the field belonging to Boaz, who was of the clan of Elimelech.
Rut 2:4 And behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem. And he said to the reapers, "The LORD be with you!" And
they answered, "The LORD bless you."
Rut 2:5 Then Boaz said to his young man who was in charge of the reapers, "Whose young woman is this?"
Rut 2:6 And the servant who was in charge of the reapers answered, "She is the young Moabite woman, who
came back with Naomi from the country of Moab.
Rut 2:7 She said, 'Please let me glean and gather among the sheaves after the reapers.' So she came, and she
has continued from early morning until now, except for a short rest."
Rut 2:8 Then Boaz said to Ruth, "Now, listen, my daughter, do not go to glean in another field or leave this one,
but keep close to my young women.
Rut 2:9 Let your eyes be on the field that they are reaping, and go after them. Have I not charged the young
men not to touch you? And when you are thirsty, go to the vessels and drink what the young men have drawn."
Rut 2:10 Then she fell on her face, bowing to the ground, and said to him, "Why have I found favor in your eyes,
that you should take notice of me, since I am a foreigner?"
Rut 2:11 But Boaz answered her, "All that you have done for your mother-in-law since the death of your
husband has been fully told to me, and how you left your father and mother and your native land and came to a
people that you did not know before.Rut 2:12 The LORD repay you for what you have done, and a full reward be given you by the LORD, the God of
Israel, under whose wings you have come to take refuge!"
Rut 2:13 Then she said, "I have found favor in your eyes, my lord, for you have comforted me and spoken kindly
to your servant, though I am not one of your servants."
Rut 2:14 And at mealtime Boaz said to her, "Come here and eat some bread and dip your morsel in the wine."
So she sat beside the reapers, and he passed to her roasted grain. And she ate until she was satisfied, and she
had some left over.
Rut 2:15 When she rose to glean, Boaz instructed his young men, saying, "Let her glean even among the
sheaves, and do not reproach her.
Rut 2:16 And also pull out some from the bundles for her and leave it for her to glean, and do not rebuke her."
Rut 2:17 So she gleaned in the field until evening. Then she beat out what she had gleaned, and it was about
an ephah of barley.
Rut 2:18 And she took it up and went into the city. Her mother-in-law saw what she had gleaned. She also
brought out and gave her what food she had left over after being satisfied.
Rut 2:19 And her mother-in-law said to her, "Where did you glean today? And where have you worked? Blessed
be the man who took notice of you." So she told her mother-in-law with whom she had worked and said, "The
man's name with whom I worked today is Boaz."
Rut 2:20 And Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, "May he be blessed by the LORD, whose kindness has not
forsaken the living or the dead!" Naomi also said to her, "The man is a close relative of ours, one of our
redeemers."
Rut 2:21 And Ruth the Moabite said, "Besides, he said to me, 'You shall keep close by my young men until they
have finished all my harvest.'"
Rut 2:22 And Naomi said to Ruth, her daughter-in-law, "It is good, my daughter, that you go out with his young
women, lest in another field you be assaulted."
Rut 2:23 So she kept close to the young women of Boaz, gleaning until the end of the barley and wheat
harvests. And she lived with her mother-in-law.
Rut 3:1 Then Naomi her mother-in-law said to her, "My daughter, should I not seek rest for you, that it may be
well with you?
Rut 3:2 Is not Boaz our relative, with whose young women you were? See, he is winnowing barley tonight at the
threshing floor.
Rut 3:3 Wash therefore and anoint yourself, and put on your cloak and go down to the threshing floor, but do not
make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking.
Rut 3:4 But when he lies down, observe the place where he lies. Then go and uncover his feet and lie down,
and he will tell you what to do."
Rut 3:5 And she replied, "All that you say I will do."
Rut 3:6 So she went down to the threshing floor and did just as her mother-in-law had commanded her.
Rut 3:7 And when Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the
heap of grain. Then she came softly and uncovered his feet and lay down.
Rut 3:8 At midnight the man was startled and turned over, and behold, a woman lay at his feet!
Rut 3:9 He said, "Who are you?" And she answered, "I am Ruth, your servant. Spread your wings over your
servant, for you are a redeemer."
Rut 3:10 And he said, "May you be blessed by the LORD, my daughter. You have made this last kindness
greater than the first in that you have not gone after young men, whether poor or rich.
Rut 3:11 And now, my daughter, do not fear. I will do for you all that you ask, for all my fellow townsmen know
that you are a worthy woman.
Rut 3:12 And now it is true that I am a redeemer. Yet there is a redeemer nearer than I.
Rut 3:13 Remain tonight, and in the morning, if he will redeem you, good; let him do it. But if he is not willing to
redeem you, then, as the LORD lives, I will redeem you. Lie down until the morning."
Rut 3:14 So she lay at his feet until the morning, but arose before one could recognize another. And he said,
"Let it not be known that the woman came to the threshing floor."
Rut 3:15 And he said, "Bring the garment you are wearing and hold it out." So she held it, and he measured out
six measures of barley and put it on her. Then she went into the city.
Rut 3:16 And when she came to her mother-in-law, she said, "How did you fare, my daughter?" Then she told
her all that the man had done for her,
Rut 3:17 saying, "These six measures of barley he gave to me, for he said to me, 'You must not go back emptyhanded to your mother-in-law.'"
Rut 3:18 She replied, "Wait, my daughter, until you learn how the matter turns out, for the man will not rest but
will settle the matter today."
Rut 4:1 Now Boaz had gone up to the gate and sat down there. And behold, the redeemer, of whom Boaz hadspoken, came by. So Boaz said, "Turn aside, friend; sit down here." And he turned aside and sat down.
Rut 4:2 And he took ten men of the elders of the city and said, "Sit down here." So they sat down.
Rut 4:3 Then he said to the redeemer, "Naomi, who has come back from the country of Moab, is selling the
parcel of land that belonged to our relative Elimelech.
Rut 4:4 So I thought I would tell you of it and say, 'Buy it in the presence of those sitting here and in the
presence of the elders of my people.' If you will redeem it, redeem it. But if you will not, tell me, that I may know,
for there is no one besides you to redeem it, and I come after you." And he said, "I will redeem it."
Rut 4:5 Then Boaz said, "The day you buy the field from the hand of Naomi, you also acquire Ruth the Moabite,
the widow of the dead, in order to perpetuate the name of the dead in his inheritance."
Rut 4:6 Then the redeemer said, "I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I impair my own inheritance. Take my right
of redemption yourself, for I cannot redeem it."
Rut 4:7 Now this was the custom in former times in Israel concerning redeeming and exchanging: to confirm a
transaction, the one drew off his sandal and gave it to the other, and this was the manner of attesting in Israel.
Rut 4:8 So when the redeemer said to Boaz, "Buy it for yourself," he drew off his sandal.
Rut 4:9 Then Boaz said to the elders and all the people, "You are witnesses this day that I have bought from the
hand of Naomi all that belonged to Elimelech and all that belonged to Chilion and to Mahlon.
Rut 4:10 Also Ruth the Moabite, the widow of Mahlon, I have bought to be my wife, to perpetuate the name of
the dead in his inheritance, that the name of the dead may not be cut off from among his brothers and from the
gate of his native place. You are witnesses this day."
Rut 4:11 Then all the people who were at the gate and the elders said, "We are witnesses. May the LORD make
the woman, who is coming into your house, like Rachel and Leah, who together built up the house of Israel. May
you act worthily in Ephrathah and be renowned in Bethlehem,
Rut 4:12 and may your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, because of the offspring
that the LORD will give you by this young woman."
Rut 4:13 So Boaz took Ruth, and she became his wife. And he went in to her, and the LORD gave her
conception, and she bore a son.
Rut 4:14 Then the women said to Naomi, "Blessed be the LORD, who has not left you this day without a
redeemer, and may his name be renowned in Israel!
Rut 4:15 He shall be to you a restorer of life and a nourisher of your old age, for your daughter-in-law who loves
you, who is more to you than seven sons, has given birth to him."
Rut 4:16 Then Naomi took the child and laid him on her lap and became his nurse.
Rut 4:17 And the women of the neighborhood gave him a name, saying, "A son has been born to Naomi." They
named him Obed. He was the father of Jesse, the father of David.
Rut 4:18 Now these are the generations of Perez: Perez fathered Hezron,
Rut 4:19 Hezron fathered Ram, Ram fathered Amminadab,
Rut 4:20 Amminadab fathered Nahshon, Nahshon fathered Salmon,
Rut 4:21 Salmon fathered Boaz, Boaz fathered Obed,
Rut 4:22 Obed fathered Jesse, and Jesse fathered David.
1Sa 1:1 There was a certain man of Ramathaim-zophim of the hill country of Ephraim whose name was
Elkanah the son of Jeroham, son of Elihu, son of Tohu, son of Zuph, an Ephrathite.
1Sa 1:2 He had two wives. The name of the one was Hannah, and the name of the other, Peninnah. And
Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.
1Sa 1:3 Now this man used to go up year by year from his city to worship and to sacrifice to the LORD of hosts
at Shiloh, where the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were priests of the LORD.
1Sa 1:4 On the day when Elkanah sacrificed, he would give portions to Peninnah his wife and to all her sons
and daughters.
1Sa 1:5 But to Hannah he gave a double portion, because he loved her, though the LORD had closed her
womb.
1Sa 1:6 And her rival used to provoke her grievously to irritate her, because the LORD had closed her womb.
1Sa 1:7 So it went on year by year. As often as she went up to the house of the LORD, she used to provoke
her. Therefore Hannah wept and would not eat.
1Sa 1:8 And Elkanah, her husband, said to her, "Hannah, why do you weep? And why do you not eat? And why
is your heart sad? Am I not more to you than ten sons?"
1Sa 1:9 After they had eaten and drunk in Shiloh, Hannah rose. Now Eli the priest was sitting on the seat beside
the doorpost of the temple of the LORD.
1Sa 1:10 She was deeply distressed and prayed to the LORD and wept bitterly.
1Sa 1:11 And she vowed a vow and said, "O LORD of hosts, if you will indeed look on the affliction of your
servant and remember me and not forget your servant, but will give to your servant a son, then I will give him to
the LORD all the days of his life, and no razor shall touch his head."1Sa 1:12 As she continued praying before the LORD, Eli observed her mouth.
1Sa 1:13 Hannah was speaking in her heart; only her lips moved, and her voice was not heard. Therefore Eli
took her to be a drunken woman.
1Sa 1:14 And Eli said to her, "How long will you go on being drunk? Put away your wine from you."
1Sa 1:15 But Hannah answered, "No, my lord, I am a woman troubled in spirit. I have drunk neither wine nor
strong drink, but I have been pouring out my soul before the LORD.
1Sa 1:16 Do not regard your servant as a worthless woman, for all along I have been speaking out of my great
anxiety and vexation."
1Sa 1:17 Then Eli answered, "Go in peace, and the God of Israel grant your petition that you have made to
him."
1Sa 1:18 And she said, "Let your servant find favor in your eyes." Then the woman went her way and ate, and
her face was no longer sad.
1Sa 1:19 They rose early in the morning and worshiped before the LORD; then they went back to their house at
Ramah. And Elkanah knew Hannah his wife, and the LORD remembered her.
1Sa 1:20 And in due time Hannah conceived and bore a son, and she called his name Samuel, for she said, "I
have asked for him from the LORD."
1Sa 1:21 The man Elkanah and all his house went up to offer to the LORD the yearly sacrifice and to pay his
vow.
1Sa 1:22 But Hannah did not go up, for she said to her husband, "As soon as the child is weaned, I will bring
him, so that he may appear in the presence of the LORD and dwell there forever."
1Sa 1:23 Elkanah her husband said to her, "Do what seems best to you; wait until you have weaned him; only,
may the LORD establish his word." So the woman remained and nursed her son until she weaned him.
1Sa 1:24 And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, along with a three-year-old bull, an ephah
of flour, and a skin of wine, and she brought him to the house of the LORD at Shiloh. And the child was young.
1Sa 1:25 Then they slaughtered the bull, and they brought the child to Eli.
1Sa 1:26 And she said, "Oh, my lord! As you live, my lord, I am the woman who was standing here in your
presence, praying to the LORD.
1Sa 1:27 For this child I prayed, and the LORD has granted me my petition that I made to him.
1Sa 1:28 Therefore I have lent him to the LORD. As long as he lives, he is lent to the LORD." And he worshiped
the LORD there.
1Sa 2:1 And Hannah prayed and said, "My heart exults in the LORD; my strength is exalted in the LORD. My
mouth derides my enemies, because I rejoice in your salvation.
1Sa 2:2 "There is none holy like the LORD; there is none besides you; there is no rock like our God.
1Sa 2:3 Talk no more so very proudly, let not arrogance come from your mouth; for the LORD is a God of
knowledge, and by him actions are weighed.
1Sa 2:4 The bows of the mighty are broken, but the feeble bind on strength.
1Sa 2:5 Those who were full have hired themselves out for bread, but those who were hungry have ceased to
hunger. The barren has borne seven, but she who has many children is forlorn.
1Sa 2:6 The LORD kills and brings to life; he brings down to Sheol and raises up.
1Sa 2:7 The LORD makes poor and makes rich; he brings low and he exalts.
1Sa 2:8 He raises up the poor from the dust; he lifts the needy from the ash heap to make them sit with princes
and inherit a seat of honor. For the pillars of the earth are the LORD's, and on them he has set the world.
1Sa 2:9 "He will guard the feet of his faithful ones, but the wicked shall be cut off in darkness, for not by might
shall a man prevail.
1Sa 2:10 The adversaries of the LORD shall be broken to pieces; against them he will thunder in heaven. The
LORD will judge the ends of the earth; he will give strength to his king and exalt the power of his anointed."
1Sa 2:11 Then Elkanah went home to Ramah. And the boy ministered to the LORD in the presence of Eli the
priest.
1Sa 2:12 Now the sons of Eli were worthless men. They did not know the LORD.
1Sa 2:13 The custom of the priests with the people was that when any man offered sacrifice, the priest's servant
would come, while the meat was boiling, with a three-pronged fork in his hand,
1Sa 2:14 and he would thrust it into the pan or kettle or cauldron or pot. All that the fork brought up the priest
would take for himself. This is what they did at Shiloh to all the Israelites who came there.
1Sa 2:15 Moreover, before the fat was burned, the priest's servant would come and say to the man who was
sacrificing, "Give meat for the priest to roast, for he will not accept boiled meat from you but only raw."
1Sa 2:16 And if the man said to him, "Let them burn the fat first, and then take as much as you wish," he would
say, "No, you must give it now, and if not, I will take it by force."
1Sa 2:17 Thus the sin of the young men was very great in the sight of the LORD, for the men treated the
offering of the LORD with contempt.1Sa 2:18 Samuel was ministering before the LORD, a boy clothed with a linen ephod.
1Sa 2:19 And his mother used to make for him a little robe and take it to him each year when she went up with
her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice.
1Sa 2:20 Then Eli would bless Elkanah and his wife, and say, "May the LORD give you children by this woman
for the petition she asked of the LORD." So then they would return to their home.
1Sa 2:21 Indeed the LORD visited Hannah, and she conceived and bore three sons and two daughters. And the
young man Samuel grew in the presence of the LORD.
1Sa 2:22 Now Eli was very old, and he kept hearing all that his sons were doing to all Israel, and how they lay
with the women who were serving at the entrance to the tent of meeting.
1Sa 2:23 And he said to them, "Why do you do such things? For I hear of your evil dealings from all the people.
1Sa 2:24 No, my sons; it is no good report that I hear the people of the LORD spreading abroad.
1Sa 2:25 If someone sins against a man, God will mediate for him, but if someone sins against the LORD, who
can intercede for him?" But they would not listen to the voice of their father, for it was the will of the LORD to put
them to death.
1Sa 2:26 Now the young man Samuel continued to grow both in stature and in favor with the LORD and also
with man.
1Sa 2:27 And there came a man of God to Eli and said to him, "Thus the LORD has said, 'Did I indeed reveal
myself to the house of your father when they were in Egypt subject to the house of Pharaoh?
1Sa 2:28 Did I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my altar, to burn incense, to
wear an ephod before me? I gave to the house of your father all my offerings by fire from the people of Israel.
1Sa 2:29 Why then do you scorn my sacrifices and my offerings that I commanded, and honor your sons above
me by fattening yourselves on the choicest parts of every offering of my people Israel?'
1Sa 2:30 Therefore the LORD the God of Israel declares: 'I promised that your house and the house of your
father should go in and out before me forever,' but now the LORD declares: 'Far be it from me, for those who
honor me I will honor, and those who despise me shall be lightly esteemed.
1Sa 2:31 Behold, the days are coming when I will cut off your strength and the strength of your father's house,
so that there will not be an old man in your house.
1Sa 2:32 Then in distress you will look with envious eye on all the prosperity that shall be bestowed on Israel,
and there shall not be an old man in your house forever.
1Sa 2:33 The only one of you whom I shall not cut off from my altar shall be spared to weep his eyes out to
grieve his heart, and all the descendants of your house shall die by the sword of men.
1Sa 2:34 And this that shall come upon your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, shall be the sign to you: both of
them shall die on the same day.
1Sa 2:35 And I will raise up for myself a faithful priest, who shall do according to what is in my heart and in my
mind. And I will build him a sure house, and he shall go in and out before my anointed forever.
1Sa 2:36 And everyone who is left in your house shall come to implore him for a piece of silver or a loaf of bread
and shall say, "Please put me in one of the priests' places, that I may eat a morsel of bread."'"
1Sa 3:1 Now the young man Samuel was ministering to the LORD under Eli. And the word of the LORD was
rare in those days; there was no frequent vision.
1Sa 3:2 At that time Eli, whose eyesight had begun to grow dim so that he could not see, was lying down in his
own place.
1Sa 3:3 The lamp of God had not yet gone out, and Samuel was lying down in the temple of the LORD, where
the ark of God was.
1Sa 3:4 Then the LORD called Samuel, and he said, "Here I am!"
1Sa 3:5 and ran to Eli and said, "Here I am, for you called me." But he said, "I did not call; lie down again." So
he went and lay down.
1Sa 3:6 And the LORD called again, "Samuel!" and Samuel arose and went to Eli and said, "Here I am, for you
called me." But he said, "I did not call, my son; lie down again."
1Sa 3:7 Now Samuel did not yet know the LORD, and the word of the LORD had not yet been revealed to him.
1Sa 3:8 And the LORD called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli and said, "Here I am,
for you called me." Then Eli perceived that the LORD was calling the young man.
1Sa 3:9 Therefore Eli said to Samuel, "Go, lie down, and if he calls you, you shall say, 'Speak, LORD, for your
servant hears.'"So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
1Sa 3:10 And the LORD came and stood, calling as at other times, "Samuel! Samuel!" And Samuel said,
"Speak, for your servant hears."
1Sa 3:11 Then the LORD said to Samuel, "Behold, I am about to do a thing in Israel at which the two ears of
everyone who hears it will tingle.
1Sa 3:12 On that day I will fulfill against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house, from beginning to end.
1Sa 3:13 And I declare to him that I am about to punish his house forever, for the iniquity that he knew, becausehis sons were blaspheming God, and he did not restrain them.
1Sa 3:14 Therefore I swear to the house of Eli that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be atoned for by sacrifice
or offering forever."
1Sa 3:15 Samuel lay until morning; then he opened the doors of the house of the LORD. And Samuel was
afraid to tell the vision to Eli.
1Sa 3:16 But Eli called Samuel and said, "Samuel, my son." And he said, "Here I am."
1Sa 3:17 And Eli said, "What was it that he told you? Do not hide it from me. May God do so to you and more
also if you hide anything from me of all that he told you."
1Sa 3:18 So Samuel told him everything and hid nothing from him. And he said, "It is the LORD. Let him do
what seems good to him."
1Sa 3:19 And Samuel grew, and the LORD was with him and let none of his words fall to the ground.
1Sa 3:20 And all Israel from Dan to Beersheba knew that Samuel was established as a prophet of the LORD.
1Sa 3:21 And the LORD appeared again at Shiloh, for the LORD revealed himself to Samuel at Shiloh by the
word of the LORD.
1Sa 4:1 And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out to battle against the Philistines. They
encamped at Ebenezer, and the Philistines encamped at Aphek.
1Sa 4:2 The Philistines drew up in line against Israel, and when the battle spread, Israel was defeated by the
Philistines, who killed about four thousand men on the field of battle.
1Sa 4:3 And when the troops came to the camp, the elders of Israel said, "Why has the LORD defeated us
today before the Philistines? Let us bring the ark of the covenant of the LORD here from Shiloh, that it may come
among us and save us from the power of our enemies."
1Sa 4:4 So the people sent to Shiloh and brought from there the ark of the covenant of the LORD of hosts, who
is enthroned on the cherubim. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the
covenant of God.
1Sa 4:5 As soon as the ark of the covenant of the LORD came into the camp, all Israel gave a mighty shout, so
that the earth resounded.
1Sa 4:6 And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shouting, they said, "What does this great shouting in
the camp of the Hebrews mean?" And when they learned that the ark of the LORD had come to the camp,
1Sa 4:7 the Philistines were afraid, for they said, "A god has come into the camp." And they said, "Woe to us!
For nothing like this has happened before.
1Sa 4:8 Woe to us! Who can deliver us from the power of these mighty gods? These are the gods who struck
the Egyptians with every sort of plague in the wilderness.
1Sa 4:9 Take courage, and be men, O Philistines, lest you become slaves to the Hebrews as they have been to
you; be men and fight."
1Sa 4:10 So the Philistines fought, and Israel was defeated, and they fled, every man to his home. And there
was a very great slaughter, for there fell of Israel thirty thousand foot soldiers.
1Sa 4:11 And the ark of God was captured, and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, died.
1Sa 4:12 A man of Benjamin ran from the battle line and came to Shiloh the same day, with his clothes torn and
with dirt on his head.
1Sa 4:13 When he arrived, Eli was sitting on his seat by the road watching, for his heart trembled for the ark of
God. And when the man came into the city and told the news, all the city cried out.
1Sa 4:14 When Eli heard the sound of the outcry, he said, "What is this uproar?" Then the man hurried and
came and told Eli.
1Sa 4:15 Now Eli was ninety-eight years old and his eyes were set so that he could not see.
1Sa 4:16 And the man said to Eli, "I am he who has come from the battle; I fled from the battle today." And he
said, "How did it go, my son?"
1Sa 4:17 He who brought the news answered and said, "Israel has fled before the Philistines, and there has
also been a great defeat among the people. Your two sons also, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of
God has been captured."
1Sa 4:18 As soon as he mentioned the ark of God, Eli fell over backward from his seat by the side of the gate,
and his neck was broken and he died, for the man was old and heavy. He had judged Israel forty years.
1Sa 4:19 Now his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was pregnant, about to give birth. And when she heard
the news that the ark of God was captured, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed
and gave birth, for her pains came upon her.
1Sa 4:20 And about the time of her death the women attending her said to her, "Do not be afraid, for you have
borne a son." But she did not answer or pay attention.
1Sa 4:21 And she named the child Ichabod, saying, "The glory has departed from Israel!" because the ark of
God had been captured and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
1Sa 4:22 And she said, "The glory has departed from Israel, for the ark of God has been captured."1Sa 5:1 When the Philistines captured the ark of God, they brought it from Ebenezer to Ashdod.
1Sa 5:2 Then the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it into the house of Dagon and set it up beside
Dagon.
1Sa 5:3 And when the people of Ashdod rose early the next day, behold, Dagon had fallen face downward on
the ground before the ark of the LORD. So they took Dagon and put him back in his place.
1Sa 5:4 But when they rose early on the next morning, behold, Dagon had fallen face downward on the ground
before the ark of the LORD, and the head of Dagon and both his hands were lying cut off on the threshold. Only
the trunk of Dagon was left to him.
1Sa 5:5 This is why the priests of Dagon and all who enter the house of Dagon do not tread on the threshold of
Dagon in Ashdod to this day.
1Sa 5:6 The hand of the LORD was heavy against the people of Ashdod, and he terrified and afflicted them with
tumors, both Ashdod and its territory.
1Sa 5:7 And when the men of Ashdod saw how things were, they said, "The ark of the God of Israel must not
remain with us, for his hand is hard against us and against Dagon our god."
1Sa 5:8 So they sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines and said, "What shall we do with the
ark of the God of Israel?" They answered, "Let the ark of the God of Israel be brought around to Gath." So they
brought the ark of the God of Israel there.
1Sa 5:9 But after they had brought it around, the hand of the LORD was against the city, causing a very great
panic, and he afflicted the men of the city, both young and old, so that tumors broke out on them.
1Sa 5:10 So they sent the ark of God to Ekron. But as soon as the ark of God came to Ekron, the people of
Ekron cried out, "They have brought around to us the ark of the God of Israel to kill us and our people."
1Sa 5:11 They sent therefore and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines and said, "Send away the ark
of the God of Israel, and let it return to its own place, that it may not kill us and our people." For there was a
deathly panic throughout the whole city. The hand of God was very heavy there.
1Sa 5:12 The men who did not die were struck with tumors, and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
1Sa 6:1 The ark of the LORD was in the country of the Philistines seven months.
1Sa 6:2 And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners and said, "What shall we do with the ark of the
LORD? Tell us with what we shall send it to its place."
1Sa 6:3 They said, "If you send away the ark of the God of Israel, do not send it empty, but by all means return
him a guilt offering. Then you will be healed, and it will be known to you why his hand does not turn away from
you."
1Sa 6:4 And they said, "What is the guilt offering that we shall return to him?" They answered, "Five golden
tumors and five golden mice, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines, for the same plague was on
all of you and on your lords.
1Sa 6:5 So you must make images of your tumors and images of your mice that ravage the land, and give glory
to the God of Israel. Perhaps he will lighten his hand from off you and your gods and your land.
1Sa 6:6 Why should you harden your hearts as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? After he had
dealt severely with them, did they not send the people away, and they departed?
1Sa 6:7 Now then, take and prepare a new cart and two milk cows on which there has never come a yoke, and
yoke the cows to the cart, but take their calves home, away from them.
1Sa 6:8 And take the ark of the LORD and place it on the cart and put in a box at its side the figures of gold,
which you are returning to him as a guilt offering. Then send it off and let it go its way
1Sa 6:9 and watch. If it goes up on the way to its own land, to Beth-shemesh, then it is he who has done us this
great harm, but if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that struck us; it happened to us by coincidence."
1Sa 6:10 The men did so, and took two milk cows and yoked them to the cart and shut up their calves at home.
1Sa 6:11 And they put the ark of the LORD on the cart and the box with the golden mice and the images of their
tumors.
1Sa 6:12 And the cows went straight in the direction of Beth-shemesh along one highway, lowing as they went.
They turned neither to the right nor to the left, and the lords of the Philistines went after them as far as the border
of Beth-shemesh.
1Sa 6:13 Now the people of Beth-shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley. And when they lifted
up their eyes and saw the ark, they rejoiced to see it.
1Sa 6:14 The cart came into the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh and stopped there. A great stone was there.
And they split up the wood of the cart and offered the cows as a burnt offering to the LORD.
1Sa 6:15 And the Levites took down the ark of the LORD and the box that was beside it, in which were the
golden figures, and set them upon the great stone. And the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt offerings and
sacrificed sacrifices on that day to the LORD.
1Sa 6:16 And when the five lords of the Philistines saw it, they returned that day to Ekron.
1Sa 6:17 These are the golden tumors that the Philistines returned as a guilt offering to the LORD: one forAshdod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Gath, one for Ekron,
1Sa 6:18 and the golden mice, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five
lords, both fortified cities and unwalled villages. The great stone beside which they set down the ark of the LORD
is a witness to this day in the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh.
1Sa 6:19 And he struck some of the men of Beth-shemesh, because they looked upon the ark of the LORD. He
struck seventy men of them, and the people mourned because the LORD had struck the people with a great
blow.
1Sa 6:20 Then the men of Beth-shemesh said, "Who is able to stand before the LORD, this holy God? And to
whom shall he go up away from us?"
1Sa 6:21 So they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, "The Philistines have returned
the ark of the LORD. Come down and take it up to you."
1Sa 7:1 And the men of Kiriath-jearim came and took up the ark of the LORD and brought it to the house of
Abinadab on the hill. And they consecrated his son Eleazar to have charge of the ark of the LORD.
1Sa 7:2 From the day that the ark was lodged at Kiriath-jearim, a long time passed, some twenty years, and all
the house of Israel lamented after the LORD.
1Sa 7:3 And Samuel said to all the house of Israel, "If you are returning to the LORD with all your heart, then
put away the foreign gods and the Ashtaroth from among you and direct your heart to the LORD and serve him
only, and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines."
1Sa 7:4 So the people of Israel put away the Baals and the Ashtaroth, and they served the LORD only.
1Sa 7:5 Then Samuel said, "Gather all Israel at Mizpah, and I will pray to the LORD for you."
1Sa 7:6 So they gathered at Mizpah and drew water and poured it out before the LORD and fasted on that day
and said there, "We have sinned against the LORD." And Samuel judged the people of Israel at Mizpah.
1Sa 7:7 Now when the Philistines heard that the people of Israel had gathered at Mizpah, the lords of the
Philistines went up against Israel. And when the people of Israel heard of it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
1Sa 7:8 And the people of Israel said to Samuel, "Do not cease to cry out to the LORD our God for us, that he
may save us from the hand of the Philistines."
1Sa 7:9 So Samuel took a nursing lamb and offered it as a whole burnt offering to the LORD. And Samuel cried
out to the LORD for Israel, and the LORD answered him.
1Sa 7:10 As Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines drew near to attack Israel. But the LORD
thundered with a mighty sound that day against the Philistines and threw them into confusion, and they were
routed before Israel.
1Sa 7:11 And the men of Israel went out from Mizpah and pursued the Philistines and struck them, as far as
below Beth-car.
1Sa 7:12 Then Samuel took a stone and set it up between Mizpah and Shen and called its name Ebenezer; for
he said, "Till now the LORD has helped us."
1Sa 7:13 So the Philistines were subdued and did not again enter the territory of Israel. And the hand of the
LORD was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
1Sa 7:14 The cities that the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron to Gath, and
Israel delivered their territory from the hand of the Philistines. There was peace also between Israel and the
Amorites.
1Sa 7:15 Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
1Sa 7:16 And he went on a circuit year by year to Bethel, Gilgal, and Mizpah. And he judged Israel in all these
places.
1Sa 7:17 Then he would return to Ramah, for his home was there, and there also he judged Israel. And he built
there an altar to the LORD.
1Sa 8:1 When Samuel became old, he made his sons judges over Israel.
1Sa 8:2 The name of his firstborn son was Joel, and the name of his second, Abi-jah; they were judges in
Beersheba.
1Sa 8:3 Yet his sons did not walk in his ways but turned aside after gain. They took bribes and perverted justice.
1Sa 8:4 Then all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Ramah
1Sa 8:5 and said to him, "Behold, you are old and your sons do not walk in your ways. Now appoint for us a
king to judge us like all the nations."
1Sa 8:6 But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, "Give us a king to judge us." And Samuel prayed to
the LORD.
1Sa 8:7 And the LORD said to Samuel, "Obey the voice of the people in all that they say to you, for they have
not rejected you, but they have rejected me from being king over them.
1Sa 8:8 According to all the deeds that they have done, from the day I brought them up out of Egypt even to this
day, forsaking me and serving other gods, so they are also doing to you.
1Sa 8:9 Now then, obey their voice; only you shall solemnly warn them and show them the ways of the king whoshall reign over them."
1Sa 8:10 So Samuel told all the words of the LORD to the people who were asking for a king from him.
1Sa 8:11 He said, "These will be the ways of the king who will reign over you: he will take your sons and appoint
them to his chariots and to be his horsemen and to run before his chariots.
1Sa 8:12 And he will appoint for himself commanders of thousands and commanders of fifties, and some to
plow his ground and to reap his harvest, and to make his implements of war and the equipment of his chariots.
1Sa 8:13 He will take your daughters to be perfumers and cooks and bakers.
1Sa 8:14 He will take the best of your fields and vineyards and olive orchards and give them to his servants.
1Sa 8:15 He will take the tenth of your grain and of your vineyards and give it to his officers and to his servants.
1Sa 8:16 He will take your male servants and female servants and the best of your young men and your
donkeys, and put them to his work.
1Sa 8:17 He will take the tenth of your flocks, and you shall be his slaves.
1Sa 8:18 And in that day you will cry out because of your king, whom you have chosen for yourselves, but the
LORD will not answer you in that day."
1Sa 8:19 But the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel. And they said, "No! But there shall be a king over
us,
1Sa 8:20 that we also may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us and go out before us and fight
our battles."
1Sa 8:21 And when Samuel had heard all the words of the people, he repeated them in the ears of the LORD.
1Sa 8:22 And the LORD said to Samuel, "Obey their voice and make them a king." Samuel then said to the men
of Israel, "Go every man to his city."
1Sa 9:1 There was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, son of Zeror, son of Becorath,
son of Aphiah, a Benjaminite, a man of wealth.
1Sa 9:2 And he had a son whose name was Saul, a handsome young man. There was not a man among the
people of Israel more handsome than he. From his shoulders upward he was taller than any of the people.
1Sa 9:3 Now the donkeys of Kish, Saul's father, were lost. So Kish said to Saul his son, "Take one of the young
men with you, and arise, go and look for the donkeys."
1Sa 9:4 And he passed through the hill country of Ephraim and passed through the land of Shalishah, but they
did not find them. And they passed through the land of Shaalim, but they were not there. Then they passed
through the land of Benjamin, but did not find them.
1Sa 9:5 When they came to the land of Zuph, Saul said to his servant who was with him, "Come, let us go back,
lest my father cease to care about the donkeys and become anxious about us."
1Sa 9:6 But he said to him, "Behold, there is a man of God in this city, and he is a man who is held in honor; all
that he says comes true. So now let us go there. Perhaps he can tell us the way we should go."
1Sa 9:7 Then Saul said to his servant, "But if we go, what can we bring the man? For the bread in our sacks is
gone, and there is no present to bring to the man of God. What do we have?"
1Sa 9:8 The servant answered Saul again, "Here, I have with me a quarter of a shekel of silver, and I will give it
to the man of God to tell us our way."
1Sa 9:9 (Formerly in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he said, "Come, let us go to the seer," for
today's "prophet" was formerly called a seer.)
1Sa 9:10 And Saul said to his servant, "Well said; come, let us go." So they went to the city where the man of
God was.
1Sa 9:11 As they went up the hill to the city, they met young women coming out to draw water and said to them,
"Is the seer here?"
1Sa 9:12 They answered, "He is; behold, he is just ahead of you. Hurry. He has come just now to the city,
because the people have a sacrifice today on the high place.
1Sa 9:13 As soon as you enter the city you will find him, before he goes up to the high place to eat. For the
people will not eat till he comes, since he must bless the sacrifice; afterward those who are invited will eat. Now
go up, for you will meet him immediately."
1Sa 9:14 So they went up to the city. As they were entering the city, they saw Samuel coming out toward them
on his way up to the high place.
1Sa 9:15 Now the day before Saul came, the LORD had revealed to Samuel:
1Sa 9:16 "Tomorrow about this time I will send to you a man from the land of Benjamin, and you shall anoint
him to be prince over my people Israel. He shall save my people from the hand of the Philistines. For I have
seen my people, because their cry has come to me."
1Sa 9:17 When Samuel saw Saul, the LORD told him, "Here is the man of whom I spoke to you! He it is who
shall restrain my people."
1Sa 9:18 Then Saul approached Samuel in the gate and said, "Tell me where is the house of the seer?"
1Sa 9:19 Samuel answered Saul, "I am the seer. Go up before me to the high place, for today you shall eat withme, and in the morning I will let you go and will tell you all that is on your mind.
1Sa 9:20 As for your donkeys that were lost three days ago, do not set your mind on them, for they have been
found. And for whom is all that is desirable in Israel? Is it not for you and for all your father's house?"
1Sa 9:21 Saul answered, "Am I not a Benjaminite, from the least of the tribes of Israel? And is not my clan the
humblest of all the clans of the tribe of Benjamin? Why then have you spoken to me in this way?"
1Sa 9:22 Then Samuel took Saul and his young man and brought them into the hall and gave them a place at
the head of those who had been invited, who were about thirty persons.
1Sa 9:23 And Samuel said to the cook, "Bring the portion I gave you, of which I said to you, 'Put it aside.'"
1Sa 9:24 So the cook took up the leg and what was on it and set them before Saul. And Samuel said, "See,
what was kept is set before you. Eat, because it was kept for you until the hour appointed, that you might eat
with the guests." So Saul ate with Samuel that day.
1Sa 9:25 And when they came down from the high place into the city, a bed was spread for Saul on the roof,
and he lay down to sleep.
1Sa 9:26 Then at the break of dawn Samuel called to Saul on the roof, "Up, that I may send you on your way."
So Saul arose, and both he and Samuel went out into the street.
1Sa 9:27 As they were going down to the outskirts of the city, Samuel said to Saul, "Tell the servant to pass on
before us, and when he has passed on, stop here yourself for a while, that I may make known to you the word of
God."
1Sa 10:1 Then Samuel took a flask of oil and poured it on his head and kissed him and said, "Has not the
LORD anointed you to be prince over his people Israel? And you shall reign over the people of the LORD and
you will save them from the hand of their surrounding enemies. And this shall be the sign to you that the LORD
has anointed you to be prince over his heritage.
1Sa 10:2 When you depart from me today, you will meet two men by Rachel's tomb in the territory of Benjamin
at Zelzah, and they will say to you, 'The donkeys that you went to seek are found, and now your father has
ceased to care about the donkeys and is anxious about you, saying, "What shall I do about my son?"'
1Sa 10:3 Then you shall go on from there further and come to the oak of Tabor. Three men going up to God at
Bethel will meet you there, one carrying three young goats, another carrying three loaves of bread, and another
carrying a skin of wine.
1Sa 10:4 And they will greet you and give you two loaves of bread, which you shall accept from their hand.
1Sa 10:5 After that you shall come to Gibeath-elohim, where there is a garrison of the Philistines. And there, as
soon as you come to the city, you will meet a group of prophets coming down from the high place with harp,
tambourine, flute, and lyre before them, prophesying.
1Sa 10:6 Then the Spirit of the LORD will rush upon you, and you will prophesy with them and be turned into
another man.
1Sa 10:7 Now when these signs meet you, do what your hand finds to do, for God is with you.
1Sa 10:8 Then go down before me to Gilgal. And behold, I am coming to you to offer burnt offerings and to
sacrifice peace offerings. Seven days you shall wait, until I come to you and show you what you shall do."
1Sa 10:9 When he turned his back to leave Samuel, God gave him another heart. And all these signs came to
pass that day.
1Sa 10:10 When they came to Gibeah, behold, a group of prophets met him, and the Spirit of God rushed upon
him, and he prophesied among them.
1Sa 10:11 And when all who knew him previously saw how he prophesied with the prophets, the people said to
one another, "What has come over the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?"
1Sa 10:12 And a man of the place answered, "And who is their father?" Therefore it became a proverb, "Is Saul
also among the prophets?"
1Sa 10:13 When he had finished prophesying, he came to the high place.
1Sa 10:14 Saul's uncle said to him and to his servant, "Where did you go?" And he said, "To seek the donkeys.
And when we saw they were not to be found, we went to Samuel."
1Sa 10:15 And Saul's uncle said, "Please tell me what Samuel said to you."
1Sa 10:16 And Saul said to his uncle, "He told us plainly that the donkeys had been found." But about the
matter of the kingdom, of which Samuel had spoken, he did not tell him anything.
1Sa 10:17 Now Samuel called the people together to the LORD at Mizpah.
1Sa 10:18 And he said to the people of Israel, "Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, 'I brought up Israel out
of Egypt, and I delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians and from the hand of all the kingdoms that were
oppressing you.'
1Sa 10:19 But today you have rejected your God, who saves you from all your calamities and your distresses,
and you have said to him, 'Set a king over us.' Now therefore present yourselves before the LORD by your tribes
and by your thousands."
1Sa 10:20 Then Samuel brought all the tribes of Israel near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken by lot.1Sa 10:21 He brought the tribe of Benjamin near by its clans, and the clan of the Matrites was taken by lot; and
Saul the son of Kish was taken by lot. But when they sought him, he could not be found.
1Sa 10:22 So they inquired again of the LORD, "Is there a man still to come?" and the LORD said, "Behold, he
has hidden himself among the baggage."
1Sa 10:23 Then they ran and took him from there. And when he stood among the people, he was taller than any
of the people from his shoulders upward.
1Sa 10:24 And Samuel said to all the people, "Do you see him whom the LORD has chosen? There is none like
him among all the people." And all the people shouted, "Long live the king!"
1Sa 10:25 Then Samuel told the people the rights and duties of the kingship, and he wrote them in a book and
laid it up before the LORD. Then Samuel sent all the people away, each one to his home.
1Sa 10:26 Saul also went to his home at Gibeah, and with him went men of valor whose hearts God had
touched.
1Sa 10:27 But some worthless fellows said, "How can this man save us?" And they despised him and brought
him no present. But he held his peace.
1Sa 11:1 Then Nahash the Ammonite went up and besieged Jabesh-gilead, and all the men of Jabesh said to
Nahash, "Make a treaty with us, and we will serve you."
1Sa 11:2 But Nahash the Ammonite said to them, "On this condition I will make a treaty with you, that I gouge
out all your right eyes, and thus bring disgrace on all Israel."
1Sa 11:3 The elders of Jabesh said to him, "Give us seven days respite that we may send messengers through
all the territory of Israel. Then, if there is no one to save us, we will give ourselves up to you."
1Sa 11:4 When the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, they reported the matter in the ears of the people, and
all the people wept aloud.
1Sa 11:5 Now, behold, Saul was coming from the field behind the oxen. And Saul said, "What is wrong with the
people, that they are weeping?" So they told him the news of the men of Jabesh.
1Sa 11:6 And the Spirit of God rushed upon Saul when he heard these words, and his anger was greatly
kindled.
1Sa 11:7 He took a yoke of oxen and cut them in pieces and sent them throughout all the territory of Israel by
the hand of messengers, saying, "Whoever does not come out after Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done to his
oxen!" Then the dread of the LORD fell upon the people, and they came out as one man.
1Sa 11:8 When he mustered them at Bezek, the people of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of
Judah thirty thousand.
1Sa 11:9 And they said to the messengers who had come, "Thus shall you say to the men of Jabesh-gilead:
'Tomorrow, by the time the sun is hot, you shall have deliverance.'"When the messengers came and told the
men of Jabesh, they were glad.
1Sa 11:10 Therefore the men of Jabesh said, "Tomorrow we will give ourselves up to you, and you may do to
us whatever seems good to you."
1Sa 11:11 And the next day Saul put the people in three companies. And they came into the midst of the camp
in the morning watch and struck down the Ammonites until the heat of the day. And those who survived were
scattered, so that no two of them were left together.
1Sa 11:12 Then the people said to Samuel, "Who is it that said, 'Shall Saul reign over us?' Bring the men, that
we may put them to death."
1Sa 11:13 But Saul said, "Not a man shall be put to death this day, for today the LORD has worked salvation in
Israel."
1Sa 11:14 Then Samuel said to the people, "Come, let us go to Gilgal and there renew the kingdom."
1Sa 11:15 So all the people went to Gilgal, and there they made Saul king before the LORD in Gilgal. There
they sacrificed peace offerings before the LORD, and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
1Sa 12:1 And Samuel said to all Israel, "Behold, I have obeyed your voice in all that you have said to me and
have made a king over you.
1Sa 12:2 And now, behold, the king walks before you, and I am old and gray; and behold, my sons are with you.
I have walked before you from my youth until this day.
1Sa 12:3 Here I am; testify against me before the LORD and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? Or
whose donkey have I taken? Or whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed? Or from whose hand have I
taken a bribe to blind my eyes with it? Testify against me and I will restore it to you."
1Sa 12:4 They said, "You have not defrauded us or oppressed us or taken anything from any man's hand."
1Sa 12:5 And he said to them, "The LORD is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that you
have not found anything in my hand." And they said, "He is witness."
1Sa 12:6 And Samuel said to the people, "The LORD is witness, who appointed Moses and Aaron and brought
your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
1Sa 12:7 Now therefore stand still that I may plead with you before the LORD concerning all the righteousdeeds of the LORD that he performed for you and for your fathers.
1Sa 12:8 When Jacob went into Egypt, and the Egyptians oppressed them, then your fathers cried out to the
LORD and the LORD sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your fathers out of Egypt and made them dwell in this
place.
1Sa 12:9 But they forgot the LORD their God. And he sold them into the hand of Sisera, commander of the
army of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab. And they fought
against them.
1Sa 12:10 And they cried out to the LORD and said, 'We have sinned, because we have forsaken the LORD
and have served the Baals and the Ashtaroth. But now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, that we may
serve you.'
1Sa 12:11 And the LORD sent Jerubbaal and Barak and Jephthah and Samuel and delivered you out of the
hand of your enemies on every side, and you lived in safety.
1Sa 12:12 And when you saw that Nahash the king of the Ammonites came against you, you said to me, 'No,
but a king shall reign over us,' when the LORD your God was your king.
1Sa 12:13 And now behold the king whom you have chosen, for whom you have asked; behold, the LORD has
set a king over you.
1Sa 12:14 If you will fear the LORD and serve him and obey his voice and not rebel against the commandment
of the LORD, and if both you and the king who reigns over you will follow the LORD your God, it will be well.
1Sa 12:15 But if you will not obey the voice of the LORD, but rebel against the commandment of the LORD,
then the hand of the LORD will be against you and your king.
1Sa 12:16 Now therefore stand still and see this great thing that the LORD will do before your eyes.
1Sa 12:17 Is it not wheat harvest today? I will call upon the LORD, that he may send thunder and rain. And you
shall know and see that your wickedness is great, which you have done in the sight of the LORD, in asking for
yourselves a king."
1Sa 12:18 So Samuel called upon the LORD, and the LORD sent thunder and rain that day, and all the people
greatly feared the LORD and Samuel.
1Sa 12:19 And all the people said to Samuel, "Pray for your servants to the LORD your God, that we may not
die, for we have added to all our sins this evil, to ask for ourselves a king."
1Sa 12:20 And Samuel said to the people, "Do not be afraid; you have done all this evil. Yet do not turn aside
from following the LORD, but serve the LORD with all your heart.
1Sa 12:21 And do not turn aside after empty things that cannot profit or deliver, for they are empty.
1Sa 12:22 For the LORD will not forsake his people, for his great name's sake, because it has pleased the
LORD to make you a people for himself.
1Sa 12:23 Moreover, as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against the LORD by ceasing to pray for you,
and I will instruct you in the good and the right way.
1Sa 12:24 Only fear the LORD and serve him faithfully with all your heart. For consider what great things he has
done for you.
1Sa 12:25 But if you still do wickedly, you shall be swept away, both you and your king."
1Sa 13:1 Saul was... years old when he began to reign, and he reigned... and two years over Israel.
1Sa 13:2 Saul chose three thousand men of Israel. Two thousand were with Saul in Michmash and the hill
country of Bethel, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin. The rest of the people he sent
home, every man to his tent.
1Sa 13:3 Jonathan defeated the garrison of the Philistines that was at Geba, and the Philistines heard of it. And
Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, "Let the Hebrews hear."
1Sa 13:4 And all Israel heard it said that Saul had defeated the garrison of the Philistines, and also that Israel
had become a stench to the Philistines. And the people were called out to join Saul at Gilgal.
1Sa 13:5 And the Philistines mustered to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots and six thousand horsemen
and troops like the sand on the seashore in multitude. They came up and encamped in Michmash, to the east of
Beth-aven.
1Sa 13:6 When the men of Israel saw that they were in trouble (for the people were hard pressed), the people
hid themselves in caves and in holes and in rocks and in tombs and in cisterns,
1Sa 13:7 and some Hebrews crossed the fords of the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. Saul was still at
Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
1Sa 13:8 He waited seven days, the time appointed by Samuel. But Samuel did not come to Gilgal, and the
people were scattering from him.
1Sa 13:9 So Saul said, "Bring the burnt offering here to me, and the peace offerings." And he offered the burnt
offering.
1Sa 13:10 As soon as he had finished offering the burnt offering, behold, Samuel came. And Saul went out to
meet him and greet him.1Sa 13:11 Samuel said, "What have you done?" And Saul said, "When I saw that the people were scattering
from me, and that you did not come within the days appointed, and that the Philistines had mustered at
Michmash,
1Sa 13:12 I said, 'Now the Philistines will come down against me at Gilgal, and I have not sought the favor of
the LORD.' So I forced myself, and offered the burnt offering."
1Sa 13:13 And Samuel said to Saul, "You have done foolishly. You have not kept the command of the LORD
your God, with which he commanded you. For then the LORD would have established your kingdom over Israel
forever.
1Sa 13:14 But now your kingdom shall not continue. The LORD has sought out a man after his own heart, and
the LORD has commanded him to be prince over his people, because you have not kept what the LORD
commanded you."
1Sa 13:15 And Samuel arose and went up from Gilgal. The rest of the people went up after Saul to meet the
army; they went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people who were present with
him, about six hundred men.
1Sa 13:16 And Saul and Jon-athan his son and the people who were present with them stayed in Geba of
Benjamin, but the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
1Sa 13:17 And raiders came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies. One company turned toward
Ophrah, to the land of Shual;
1Sa 13:18 another company turned toward Beth-horon; and another company turned toward the border that
looks down on the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
1Sa 13:19 Now there was no blacksmith to be found throughout all the land of Israel, for the Philistines said,
"Lest the Hebrews make themselves swords or spears."
1Sa 13:20 But every one of the Israelites went down to the Philistines to sharpen his plowshare, his mattock, his
axe, or his sickle,
1Sa 13:21 and the charge was two-thirds of a shekel for the plowshares and for the mattocks, and a third of a
shekel for sharpening the axes and for setting the goads.
1Sa 13:22 So on the day of the battle there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people
with Saul and Jonathan, but Saul and Jonathan his son had them.
1Sa 13:23 And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the pass of Michmash.
1Sa 14:1 One day Jonathan the son of Saul said to the young man who carried his armor, "Come, let us go over
to the Philistine garrison on the other side." But he did not tell his father.
1Sa 14:2 Saul was staying in the outskirts of Gibeah in the pomegranate cave at Migron. The people who were
with him were about six hundred men,
1Sa 14:3 including Ahijah the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, son of Phinehas, son of Eli, the priest of the
LORD in Shiloh, wearing an ephod. And the people did not know that Jonathan had gone.
1Sa 14:4 Within the passes, by which Jonathan sought to go over to the Philistine garrison, there was a rocky
crag on the one side and a rocky crag on the other side. The name of the one was Bozez, and the name of the
other Seneh.
1Sa 14:5 The one crag rose on the north in front of Michmash, and the other on the south in front of Geba.
1Sa 14:6 Jonathan said to the young man who carried his armor, "Come, let us go over to the garrison of these
uncircumcised. It may be that the LORD will work for us, for nothing can hinder the LORD from saving by many
or by few."
1Sa 14:7 And his armor-bearer said to him, "Do all that is in your heart. Do as you wish. Behold, I am with you
heart and soul."
1Sa 14:8 Then Jonathan said, "Behold, we will cross over to the men, and we will show ourselves to them.
1Sa 14:9 If they say to us, 'Wait until we come to you,' then we will stand still in our place, and we will not go up
to them.
1Sa 14:10 But if they say, 'Come up to us,' then we will go up, for the LORD has given them into our hand. And
this shall be the sign to us."
1Sa 14:11 So both of them showed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines. And the Philistines said, "Look,
Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they have hidden themselves."
1Sa 14:12 And the men of the garrison hailed Jonathan and his armor-bearer and said, "Come up to us, and we
will show you a thing." And Jonathan said to his armor-bearer, "Come up after me, for the LORD has given them
into the hand of Israel."
1Sa 14:13 Then Jonathan climbed up on his hands and feet, and his armor-bearer after him. And they fell
before Jonathan, and his armor-bearer killed them after him.
1Sa 14:14 And that first strike, which Jonathan and his armor-bearer made, killed about twenty men within as it
were half a furrow's length in an acre of land.
1Sa 14:15 And there was a panic in the camp, in the field, and among all the people. The garrison and even theraiders trembled, the earth quaked, and it became a very great panic.
1Sa 14:16 And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and behold, the multitude was dispersing
here and there.
1Sa 14:17 Then Saul said to the people who were with him, "Count and see who has gone from us." And when
they had counted, behold, Jonathan and his armor-bearer were not there.
1Sa 14:18 So Saul said to Ahijah, "Bring the ark of God here." For the ark of God went at that time with the
people of Israel.
1Sa 14:19 Now while Saul was talking to the priest, the tumult in the camp of the Philistines increased more and
more. So Saul said to the priest, "Withdraw your hand."
1Sa 14:20 Then Saul and all the people who were with him rallied and went into the battle. And behold, every
Philistine's sword was against his fellow, and there was very great confusion.
1Sa 14:21 Now the Hebrews who had been with the Philistines before that time and who had gone up with them
into the camp, even they also turned to be with the Israelites who were with Saul and Jonathan.
1Sa 14:22 Likewise, when all the men of Israel who had hidden themselves in the hill country of Ephraim heard
that the Philistines were fleeing, they too followed hard after them in the battle.
1Sa 14:23 So the LORD saved Israel that day. And the battle passed beyond Beth-aven.
1Sa 14:24 And the men of Israel had been hard pressed that day, so Saul had laid an oath on the people,
saying, "Cursed be the man who eats food until it is evening and I am avenged on my enemies." So none of the
people had tasted food.
1Sa 14:25 Now when all the people came to the forest, behold, there was honey on the ground.
1Sa 14:26 And when the people entered the forest, behold, the honey was dropping, but no one put his hand to
his mouth, for the people feared the oath.
1Sa 14:27 But Jonathan had not heard his father charge the people with the oath, so he put out the tip of the
staff that was in his hand and dipped it in the honeycomb and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes became
bright.
1Sa 14:28 Then one of the people said, "Your father strictly charged the people with an oath, saying, 'Cursed be
the man who eats food this day.'"And the people were faint.
1Sa 14:29 Then Jonathan said, "My father has troubled the land. See how my eyes have become bright
because I tasted a little of this honey.
1Sa 14:30 How much better if the people had eaten freely today of the spoil of their enemies that they found.
For now the defeat among the Philistines has not been great."
1Sa 14:31 They struck down the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon. And the people were very faint.
1Sa 14:32 The people pounced on the spoil and took sheep and oxen and calves and slaughtered them on the
ground. And the people ate them with the blood.
1Sa 14:33 Then they told Saul, "Behold, the people are sinning against the LORD by eating with the blood." And
he said, "You have dealt treacherously; roll a great stone to me here."
1Sa 14:34 And Saul said, "Disperse yourselves among the people and say to them, 'Let every man bring his ox
or his sheep and slaughter them here and eat, and do not sin against the LORD by eating with the blood.'"So
every one of the people brought his ox with him that night and they slaughtered them there.
1Sa 14:35 And Saul built an altar to the LORD; it was the first altar that he built to the LORD.
1Sa 14:36 Then Saul said, "Let us go down after the Philistines by night and plunder them until the morning
light; let us not leave a man of them." And they said, "Do whatever seems good to you." But the priest said, "Let
us draw near to God here."
1Sa 14:37 And Saul inquired of God, "Shall I go down after the Philistines? Will you give them into the hand of
Israel?" But he did not answer him that day.
1Sa 14:38 And Saul said, "Come here, all you leaders of the people, and know and see how this sin has arisen
today.
1Sa 14:39 For as the LORD lives who saves Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die." But
there was not a man among all the people who answered him.
1Sa 14:40 Then he said to all Israel, "You shall be on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other
side." And the people said to Saul, "Do what seems good to you."
1Sa 14:41 Therefore Saul said, "O LORD God of Israel, why have you not answered your servant this day? If
this guilt is in me or in Jonathan my son, O LORD, God of Israel, give Urim. But if this guilt is in your people
Israel, give Thummim." And Jonathan and Saul were taken, but the people escaped.
1Sa 14:42 Then Saul said, "Cast the lot between me and my son Jonathan." And Jonathan was taken.
1Sa 14:43 Then Saul said to Jonathan, "Tell me what you have done." And Jonathan told him, "I tasted a little
honey with the tip of the staff that was in my hand. Here I am; I will die."
1Sa 14:44 And Saul said, "God do so to me and more also; you shall surely die, Jonathan."
1Sa 14:45 Then the people said to Saul, "Shall Jonathan die, who has worked this great salvation in Israel? Farfrom it! As the LORD lives, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground, for he has worked with God this
day." So the people ransomed Jonathan, so that he did not die.
1Sa 14:46 Then Saul went up from pursuing the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their own place.
1Sa 14:47 When Saul had taken the kingship over Israel, he fought against all his enemies on every side,
against Moab, against the Ammonites, against Edom, against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines.
Wherever he turned he routed them.
1Sa 14:48 And he did valiantly and struck the Amalekites and delivered Israel out of the hands of those who
plundered them.
1Sa 14:49 Now the sons of Saul were Jonathan, Ishvi, and Malchi-shua. And the names of his two daughters
were these: the name of the firstborn was Merab, and the name of the younger Michal.
1Sa 14:50 And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahima-az. And the name of the
commander of his army was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
1Sa 14:51 Kish was the father of Saul, and Ner the father of Abner was the son of Abiel.
1Sa 14:52 There was hard fighting against the Philistines all the days of Saul. And when Saul saw any strong
man, or any valiant man, he attached him to himself.
1Sa 15:1 And Samuel said to Saul, "The LORD sent me to anoint you king over his people Israel; now therefore
listen to the words of the LORD.
1Sa 15:2 Thus says the LORD of hosts, 'I have noted what Amalek did to Israel in opposing them on the way
when they came up out of Egypt.
1Sa 15:3 Now go and strike Amalek and devote to destruction all that they have. Do not spare them, but kill
both man and woman, child and infant, ox and sheep, camel and donkey.'"
1Sa 15:4 So Saul summoned the people and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand men on foot,
and ten thousand men of Judah.
1Sa 15:5 And Saul came to the city of Amalek and lay in wait in the valley.
1Sa 15:6 Then Saul said to the Kenites, "Go, depart; go down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you
with them. For you showed kindness to all the people of Israel when they came up out of Egypt." So the Kenites
departed from among the Amalekites.
1Sa 15:7 And Saul defeated the Amalekites from Havilah as far as Shur, which is east of Egypt.
1Sa 15:8 And he took Agag the king of the Amalekites alive and devoted to destruction all the people with the
edge of the sword.
1Sa 15:9 But Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep and of the oxen and of the fattened
calves and the lambs, and all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them. All that was despised and
worthless they devoted to destruction.
1Sa 15:10 The word of the LORD came to Samuel:
1Sa 15:11 "I regret that I have made Saul king, for he has turned back from following me and has not performed
my commandments." And Samuel was angry, and he cried to the LORD all night.
1Sa 15:12 And Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning. And it was told Samuel, "Saul came to Carmel,
and behold, he set up a monument for himself and turned and passed on and went down to Gilgal."
1Sa 15:13 And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said to him, "Blessed be you to the LORD. I have performed the
commandment of the LORD."
1Sa 15:14 And Samuel said, "What then is this bleating of the sheep in my ears and the lowing of the oxen that
I hear?"
1Sa 15:15 Saul said, "They have brought them from the Amalekites, for the people spared the best of the sheep
and of the oxen to sacrifice to the LORD your God, and the rest we have devoted to destruction."
1Sa 15:16 Then Samuel said to Saul, "Stop! I will tell you what the LORD said to me this night." And he said to
him, "Speak."
1Sa 15:17 And Samuel said, "Though you are little in your own eyes, are you not the head of the tribes of
Israel? The LORD anointed you king over Israel.
1Sa 15:18 And the LORD sent you on a mission and said, 'Go, devote to destruction the sinners, the
Amalekites, and fight against them until they are consumed.'
1Sa 15:19 Why then did you not obey the voice of the LORD? Why did you pounce on the spoil and do what
was evil in the sight of the LORD?"
1Sa 15:20 And Saul said to Samuel, "I have obeyed the voice of the LORD. I have gone on the mission on
which the LORD sent me. I have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and I have devoted the Amalekites to
destruction.
1Sa 15:21 But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the best of the things devoted to destruction, to
sacrifice to the LORD your God in Gilgal."
1Sa 15:22 And Samuel said, "Has the LORD as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the
voice of the LORD? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams.1Sa 15:23 For rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have
rejected the word of the LORD, he has also rejected you from being king."
1Sa 15:24 Saul said to Samuel, "I have sinned, for I have transgressed the commandment of the LORD and
your words, because I feared the people and obeyed their voice.
1Sa 15:25 Now therefore, please pardon my sin and return with me that I may worship the LORD."
1Sa 15:26 And Samuel said to Saul, "I will not return with you. For you have rejected the word of the LORD, and
the LORD has rejected you from being king over Israel."
1Sa 15:27 As Samuel turned to go away, Saul seized the skirt of his robe, and it tore.
1Sa 15:28 And Samuel said to him, "The LORD has torn the kingdom of Israel from you this day and has given
it to a neighbor of yours, who is better than you.
1Sa 15:29 And also the Glory of Israel will not lie or have regret, for he is not a man, that he should have
regret."
1Sa 15:30 Then he said, "I have sinned; yet honor me now before the elders of my people and before Israel,
and return with me, that I may bow before the LORD your God."
1Sa 15:31 So Samuel turned back after Saul, and Saul bowed before the LORD.
1Sa 15:32 Then Samuel said, "Bring here to me Agag the king of the Amalekites." And Agag came to him
cheerfully. Agag said, "Surely the bitterness of death is past."
1Sa 15:33 And Samuel said, "As your sword has made women childless, so shall your mother be childless
among women." And Samuel hacked Agag to pieces before the LORD in Gilgal.
1Sa 15:34 Then Samuel went to Ramah, and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah of Saul.
1Sa 15:35 And Samuel did not see Saul again until the day of his death, but Samuel grieved over Saul. And the
LORD regretted that he had made Saul king over Israel.
1Sa 16:1 The LORD said to Samuel, "How long will you grieve over Saul, since I have rejected him from being
king over Israel? Fill your horn with oil, and go. I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have provided for
myself a king among his sons."
1Sa 16:2 And Samuel said, "How can I go? If Saul hears it, he will kill me." And the LORD said, "Take a heifer
with you and say, 'I have come to sacrifice to the LORD.'
1Sa 16:3 And invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what you shall do. And you shall anoint for me
him whom I declare to you."
1Sa 16:4 Samuel did what the LORD commanded and came to Bethlehem. The elders of the city came to meet
him trembling and said, "Do you come peaceably?"
1Sa 16:5 And he said, "Peaceably; I have come to sacrifice to the LORD. Consecrate yourselves, and come
with me to the sacrifice." And he consecrated Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice.
1Sa 16:6 When they came, he looked on Eliab and thought, "Surely the LORD's anointed is before him."
1Sa 16:7 But the LORD said to Samuel, "Do not look on his appearance or on the height of his stature, because
I have rejected him. For the LORD sees not as man sees: man looks on the outward appearance, but the LORD
looks on the heart."
1Sa 16:8 Then Jesse called Abinadab and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, "Neither has the LORD
chosen this one."
1Sa 16:9 Then Jesse made Shammah pass by. And he said, "Neither has the LORD chosen this one."
1Sa 16:10 And Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, "The LORD has
not chosen these."
1Sa 16:11 Then Samuel said to Jesse, "Are all your sons here?" And he said, "There remains yet the youngest,
but behold, he is keeping the sheep." And Samuel said to Jesse, "Send and get him, for we will not sit down till
he comes here."
1Sa 16:12 And he sent and brought him in. Now he was ruddy and had beautiful eyes and was handsome. And
the LORD said, "Arise, anoint him, for this is he."
1Sa 16:13 Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brothers. And the Spirit of the
LORD rushed upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up and went to Ramah.
1Sa 16:14 Now the Spirit of the LORD departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the LORD tormented him.
1Sa 16:15 And Saul's servants said to him, "Behold now, an evil spirit from God is tormenting you.
1Sa 16:16 Let our lord now command your servants who are before you to seek out a man who is skillful in
playing the lyre, and when the evil spirit from God is upon you, he will play it, and you will be well."
1Sa 16:17 So Saul said to his servants, "Provide for me a man who can play well and bring him to me."
1Sa 16:18 One of the young men answered, "Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite, who is
skillful in playing, a man of valor, a man of war, prudent in speech, and a man of good presence, and the LORD
is with him."
1Sa 16:19 Therefore Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, "Send me David your son, who is with the
sheep."1Sa 16:20 And Jesse took a donkey laden with bread and a skin of wine and a young goat and sent them by
David his son to Saul.
1Sa 16:21 And David came to Saul and entered his service. And Saul loved him greatly, and he became his
armor-bearer.
1Sa 16:22 And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, "Let David remain in my service, for he has found favor in my sight."
1Sa 16:23 And whenever the evil spirit from God was upon Saul, David took the lyre and played it with his hand.
So Saul was refreshed and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him.
1Sa 17:1 Now the Philistines gathered their armies for battle. And they were gathered at Socoh, which belongs
to Judah, and encamped between Socoh and Azekah, in Ephes-dammim.
1Sa 17:2 And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered, and encamped in the Valley of Elah, and drew up in
line of battle against the Philistines.
1Sa 17:3 And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the
other side, with a valley between them.
1Sa 17:4 And there came out from the camp of the Philistines a champion named Goliath of Gath, whose height
was six cubits and a span.
1Sa 17:5 He had a helmet of bronze on his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail, and the weight of the
coat was five thousand shekels of bronze.
1Sa 17:6 And he had bronze armor on his legs, and a javelin of bronze slung between his shoulders.
1Sa 17:7 The shaft of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of
iron. And his shield-bearer went before him.
1Sa 17:8 He stood and shouted to the ranks of Israel, "Why have you come out to draw up for battle? Am I not a
Philistine, and are you not servants of Saul? Choose a man for yourselves, and let him come down to me.
1Sa 17:9 If he is able to fight with me and kill me, then we will be your servants. But if I prevail against him and
kill him, then you shall be our servants and serve us."
1Sa 17:10 And the Philistine said, "I defy the ranks of Israel this day. Give me a man, that we may fight
together."
1Sa 17:11 When Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistine, they were dismayed and greatly afraid.
1Sa 17:12 Now David was the son of an Ephrathite of Bethlehem in Judah, named Jesse, who had eight sons.
In the days of Saul the man was already old and advanced in years.
1Sa 17:13 The three oldest sons of Jesse had followed Saul to the battle. And the names of his three sons who
went to the battle were Eliab the firstborn, and next to him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
1Sa 17:14 David was the youngest. The three eldest followed Saul,
1Sa 17:15 but David went back and forth from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem.
1Sa 17:16 For forty days the Philistine came forward and took his stand, morning and evening.
1Sa 17:17 And Jesse said to David his son, "Take for your brothers an ephah of this parched grain, and these
ten loaves, and carry them quickly to the camp to your brothers.
1Sa 17:18 Also take these ten cheeses to the commander of their thousand. See if your brothers are well, and
bring some token from them."
1Sa 17:19 Now Saul and they and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah, fighting with the Philistines.
1Sa 17:20 And David rose early in the morning and left the sheep with a keeper and took the provisions and
went, as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the encampment as the host was going out to the battle
line, shouting the war cry.
1Sa 17:21 And Israel and the Philistines drew up for battle, army against army.
1Sa 17:22 And David left the things in charge of the keeper of the baggage and ran to the ranks and went and
greeted his brothers.
1Sa 17:23 As he talked with them, behold, the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, came up out
of the ranks of the Philistines and spoke the same words as before. And David heard him.
1Sa 17:24 All the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him and were much afraid.
1Sa 17:25 And the men of Israel said, "Have you seen this man who has come up? Surely he has come up to
defy Israel. And the king will enrich the man who kills him with great riches and will give him his daughter and
make his father's house free in Israel."
1Sa 17:26 And David said to the men who stood by him, "What shall be done for the man who kills this
Philistine and takes away the reproach from Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy
the armies of the living God?"
1Sa 17:27 And the people answered him in the same way, "So shall it be done to the man who kills him."
1Sa 17:28 Now Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spoke to the men. And Eliab's anger was kindled against
David, and he said, "Why have you come down? And with whom have you left those few sheep in the
wilderness? I know your presumption and the evil of your heart, for you have come down to see the battle."
1Sa 17:29 And David said, "What have I done now? Was it not but a word?"1Sa 17:30 And he turned away from him toward another, and spoke in the same way, and the people answered
him again as before.
1Sa 17:31 When the words that David spoke were heard, they repeated them before Saul, and he sent for him.
1Sa 17:32 And David said to Saul, "Let no man's heart fail because of him. Your servant will go and fight with
this Philistine."
1Sa 17:33 And Saul said to David, "You are not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him, for you are but
a youth, and he has been a man of war from his youth."
1Sa 17:34 But David said to Saul, "Your servant used to keep sheep for his father. And when there came a lion,
or a bear, and took a lamb from the flock,
1Sa 17:35 I went after him and struck him and delivered it out of his mouth. And if he arose against me, I caught
him by his beard and struck him and killed him.
1Sa 17:36 Your servant has struck down both lions and bears, and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be like
one of them, for he has defied the armies of the living God."
1Sa 17:37 And David said, "The LORD who delivered me from the paw of the lion and from the paw of the bear
will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine." And Saul said to David, "Go, and the LORD be with you!"
1Sa 17:38 Then Saul clothed David with his armor. He put a helmet of bronze on his head and clothed him with
a coat of mail,
1Sa 17:39 and David strapped his sword over his armor. And he tried in vain to go, for he had not tested them.
Then David said to Saul, "I cannot go with these, for I have not tested them." So David put them off.
1Sa 17:40 Then he took his staff in his hand and chose five smooth stones from the brook and put them in his
shepherd's pouch. His sling was in his hand, and he approached the Philistine.
1Sa 17:41 And the Philistine moved forward and came near to David, with his shield-bearer in front of him.
1Sa 17:42 And when the Philistine looked and saw David, he disdained him, for he was but a youth, ruddy and
handsome in appearance.
1Sa 17:43 And the Philistine said to David, "Am I a dog, that you come to me with sticks?" And the Philistine
cursed David by his gods.
1Sa 17:44 The Philistine said to David, "Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the air and to the
beasts of the field."
1Sa 17:45 Then David said to the Philistine, "You come to me with a sword and with a spear and with a javelin,
but I come to you in the name of the LORD of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied.
1Sa 17:46 This day the LORD will deliver you into my hand, and I will strike you down and cut off your head.
And I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day to the birds of the air and to the wild beasts
of the earth, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel,
1Sa 17:47 and that all this assembly may know that the LORD saves not with sword and spear. For the battle is
the LORD's, and he will give you into our hand."
1Sa 17:48 When the Philistine arose and came and drew near to meet David, David ran quickly toward the
battle line to meet the Philistine.
1Sa 17:49 And David put his hand in his bag and took out a stone and slung it and struck the Philistine on his
forehead. The stone sank into his forehead, and he fell on his face to the ground.
1Sa 17:50 So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and struck the Philistine and
killed him. There was no sword in the hand of David.
1Sa 17:51 Then David ran and stood over the Philistine and took his sword and drew it out of its sheath and
killed him and cut off his head with it. When the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, they fled.
1Sa 17:52 And the men of Israel and Judah rose with a shout and pursued the Philistines as far as Gath and the
gates of Ekron, so that the wounded Philistines fell on the way from Shaaraim as far as Gath and Ekron.
1Sa 17:53 And the people of Israel came back from chasing the Philistines, and they plundered their camp.
1Sa 17:54 And David took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem, but he put his armor in his tent.
1Sa 17:55 As soon as Saul saw David go out against the Philistine, he said to Abner, the commander of the
army, "Abner, whose son is this youth?" And Abner said, "As your soul lives, O king, I do not know."
1Sa 17:56 And the king said, "Inquire whose son the boy is."
1Sa 17:57 And as soon as David returned from the striking down of the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought
him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand.
1Sa 17:58 And Saul said to him, "Whose son are you, young man?" And David answered, "I am the son of your
servant Jesse the Bethlehemite."
1Sa 18:1 As soon as he had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David, and
Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
1Sa 18:2 And Saul took him that day and would not let him return to his father's house.
1Sa 18:3 Then Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as his own soul.
1Sa 18:4 And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was on him and gave it to David, and his armor, andeven his sword and his bow and his belt.
1Sa 18:5 And David went out and was successful wherever Saul sent him, so that Saul set him over the men of
war. And this was good in the sight of all the people and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
1Sa 18:6 As they were coming home, when David returned from striking down the Philistine, the women came
out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet King Saul, with tambourines, with songs of joy, and
with musical instruments.
1Sa 18:7 And the women sang to one another as they celebrated, "Saul has struck down his thousands, and
David his ten thousands."
1Sa 18:8 And Saul was very angry, and this saying displeased him. He said, "They have ascribed to David ten
thousands, and to me they have ascribed thousands, and what more can he have but the kingdom?"
1Sa 18:9 And Saul eyed David from that day on.
1Sa 18:10 The next day a harmful spirit from God rushed upon Saul, and he raved within his house while David
was playing the lyre, as he did day by day. Saul had his spear in his hand.
1Sa 18:11 And Saul hurled the spear, for he thought, "I will pin David to the wall." But David evaded him twice.
1Sa 18:12 Saul was afraid of David because the LORD was with him but had departed from Saul.
1Sa 18:13 So Saul removed him from his presence and made him a commander of a thousand. And he went
out and came in before the people.
1Sa 18:14 And David had success in all his undertakings, for the LORD was with him.
1Sa 18:15 And when Saul saw that he had great success, he stood in fearful awe of him.
1Sa 18:16 But all Israel and Judah loved David, for he went out and came in before them.
1Sa 18:17 Then Saul said to David, "Here is my elder daughter Merab. I will give her to you for a wife. Only be
valiant for me and fight the LORD's battles." For Saul thought, "Let not my hand be against him, but let the hand
of the Philistines be against him."
1Sa 18:18 And David said to Saul, "Who am I, and who are my relatives, my father's clan in Israel, that I should
be son-in-law to the king?"
1Sa 18:19 But at the time when Merab, Saul's daughter, should have been given to David, she was given to
Adriel the Meholathite for a wife.
1Sa 18:20 Now Saul's daughter Michal loved David. And they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
1Sa 18:21 Saul thought, "Let me give her to him, that she may be a snare for him and that the hand of the
Philistines may be against him." Therefore Saul said to David a second time, "You shall now be my son-in-law."
1Sa 18:22 And Saul commanded his servants, "Speak to David in private and say, 'Behold, the king has delight
in you, and all his servants love you. Now then become the king's son-in-law.'"
1Sa 18:23 And Saul's servants spoke those words in the ears of David. And David said, "Does it seem to you a
little thing to become the king's son-in-law, since I am a poor man and have no reputation?"
1Sa 18:24 And the servants of Saul told him, "Thus and so did David speak."
1Sa 18:25 Then Saul said, "Thus shall you say to David, 'The king desires no bride-price except a hundred
foreskins of the Philistines, that he may be avenged of the king's enemies.'"Now Saul thought to make David fall
by the hand of the Philistines.
1Sa 18:26 And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son-in-law.
Before the time had expired,
1Sa 18:27 David arose and went, along with his men, and killed two hundred of the Philistines. And David
brought their foreskins, which were given in full number to the king, that he might become the king's son-in-law.
And Saul gave him his daughter Michal for a wife.
1Sa 18:28 But when Saul saw and knew that the LORD was with David, and that Michal, Saul's daughter, loved
him,
1Sa 18:29 Saul was even more afraid of David. So Saul was David's enemy continually.
1Sa 18:30 Then the princes of the Philistines came out to battle, and as often as they came out David had more
success than all the servants of Saul, so that his name was highly esteemed.
1Sa 19:1 And Saul spoke to Jonathan his son and to all his servants, that they should kill David. But Jonathan,
Saul's son, delighted much in David.
1Sa 19:2 And Jonathan told David, "Saul my father seeks to kill you. Therefore be on your guard in the morning.
Stay in a secret place and hide yourself.
1Sa 19:3 And I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where you are, and I will speak to my father
about you. And if I learn anything I will tell you."
1Sa 19:4 And Jonathan spoke well of David to Saul his father and said to him, "Let not the king sin against his
servant David, because he has not sinned against you, and because his deeds have brought good to you.
1Sa 19:5 For he took his life in his hand and he struck down the Philistine, and the LORD worked a great
salvation for all Israel. You saw it, and rejoiced. Why then will you sin against innocent blood by killing David
without cause?"1Sa 19:6 And Saul listened to the voice of Jonathan. Saul swore, "As the LORD lives, he shall not be put to
death."
1Sa 19:7 And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan reported to him all these things. And Jonathan brought
David to Saul, and he was in his presence as before.
1Sa 19:8 And there was war again. And David went out and fought with the Philistines and struck them with a
great blow, so that they fled before him.
1Sa 19:9 Then a harmful spirit from the LORD came upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his spear in his
hand. And David was playing the lyre.
1Sa 19:10 And Saul sought to pin David to the wall with the spear, but he eluded Saul, so that he struck the
spear into the wall. And David fled and escaped that night.
1Sa 19:11 Saul sent messengers to David's house to watch him, that he might kill him in the morning. But
Michal, David's wife, told him, "If you do not escape with your life tonight, tomorrow you will be killed."
1Sa 19:12 So Michal let David down through the window, and he fled away and escaped.
1Sa 19:13 Michal took an image and laid it on the bed and put a pillow of goats' hair at its head and covered it
with the clothes.
1Sa 19:14 And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, "He is sick."
1Sa 19:15 Then Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, "Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may kill
him."
1Sa 19:16 And when the messengers came in, behold, the image was in the bed, with the pillow of goats' hair at
its head.
1Sa 19:17 Saul said to Michal, "Why have you deceived me thus and let my enemy go, so that he has
escaped?" And Michal answered Saul, "He said to me, 'Let me go. Why should I kill you?'"
1Sa 19:18 Now David fled and escaped, and he came to Samuel at Ramah and told him all that Saul had done
to him. And he and Samuel went and lived at Naioth.
1Sa 19:19 And it was told Saul, "Behold, David is at Naioth in Ramah."
1Sa 19:20 Then Saul sent messengers to take David, and when they saw the company of the prophets
prophesying, and Samuel standing as head over them, the Spirit of God came upon the messengers of Saul,
and they also prophesied.
1Sa 19:21 When it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. And Saul sent
messengers again the third time, and they also prophesied.
1Sa 19:22 Then he himself went to Ramah and came to the great well that is in Secu. And he asked, "Where
are Samuel and David?" And one said, "Behold, they are at Naioth in Ramah."
1Sa 19:23 And he went there to Naioth in Ramah. And the Spirit of God came upon him also, and as he went he
prophesied until he came to Naioth in Ramah.
1Sa 19:24 And he too stripped off his clothes, and he too prophesied before Samuel and lay naked all that day
and all that night. Thus it is said, "Is Saul also among the prophets?"
1Sa 20:1 Then David fled from Naioth in Ramah and came and said before Jonathan, "What have I done? What
is my guilt? And what is my sin before your father, that he seeks my life?"
1Sa 20:2 And he said to him, "Far from it! You shall not die. Behold, my father does nothing either great or small
without disclosing it to me. And why should my father hide this from me? It is not so."
1Sa 20:3 But David vowed again, saying, "Your father knows well that I have found favor in your eyes, and he
thinks, 'Do not let Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved.' But truly, as the LORD lives and as your soul lives,
there is but a step between me and death."
1Sa 20:4 Then Jonathan said to David, "Whatever you say, I will do for you."
1Sa 20:5 David said to Jonathan, "Behold, tomorrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to sit at table with
the king. But let me go, that I may hide myself in the field till the third day at evening.
1Sa 20:6 If your father misses me at all, then say, 'David earnestly asked leave of me to run to Bethlehem his
city, for there is a yearly sacrifice there for all the clan.'
1Sa 20:7 If he says, 'Good!' it will be well with your servant, but if he is angry, then know that harm is
determined by him.
1Sa 20:8 Therefore deal kindly with your servant, for you have brought your servant into a covenant of the
LORD with you. But if there is guilt in me, kill me yourself, for why should you bring me to your father?"
1Sa 20:9 And Jonathan said, "Far be it from you! If I knew that it was determined by my father that harm should
come to you, would I not tell you?"
1Sa 20:10 Then David said to Jonathan, "Who will tell me if your father answers you roughly?"
1Sa 20:11 And Jonathan said to David, "Come, let us go out into the field." So they both went out into the field.
1Sa 20:12 And Jonathan said to David, "The LORD, the God of Israel, be witness! When I have sounded out my
father, about this time tomorrow, or the third day, behold, if he is well disposed toward David, shall I not then
send and disclose it to you?1Sa 20:13 But should it please my father to do you harm, the LORD do so to Jonathan and more also if I do not
disclose it to you and send you away, that you may go in safety. May the LORD be with you, as he has been
with my father.
1Sa 20:14 If I am still alive, show me the steadfast love of the LORD, that I may not die;
1Sa 20:15 and do not cut off your steadfast love from my house forever, when the LORD cuts off every one of
the enemies of David from the face of the earth."
1Sa 20:16 And Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, "May the LORD take vengeance on
David's enemies."
1Sa 20:17 And Jonathan made David swear again by his love for him, for he loved him as he loved his own
soul.
1Sa 20:18 Then Jonathan said to him, "Tomorrow is the new moon, and you will be missed, because your seat
will be empty.
1Sa 20:19 On the third day go down quickly to the place where you hid yourself when the matter was in hand,
and remain beside the stone heap.
1Sa 20:20 And I will shoot three arrows to the side of it, as though I shot at a mark.
1Sa 20:21 And behold, I will send the young man, saying, 'Go, find the arrows.' If I say to the young man, 'Look,
the arrows are on this side of you, take them,' then you are to come, for, as the LORD lives, it is safe for you and
there is no danger.
1Sa 20:22 But if I say to the youth, 'Look, the arrows are beyond you,' then go, for the LORD has sent you
away.
1Sa 20:23 And as for the matter of which you and I have spoken, behold, the LORD is between you and me
forever."
1Sa 20:24 So David hid himself in the field. And when the new moon came, the king sat down to eat food.
1Sa 20:25 The king sat on his seat, as at other times, on the seat by the wall. Jonathan sat opposite, and Abner
sat by Saul's side, but David's place was empty.
1Sa 20:26 Yet Saul did not say anything that day, for he thought, "Something has happened to him. He is not
clean; surely he is not clean."
1Sa 20:27 But on the second day, the day after the new moon, David's place was empty. And Saul said to
Jonathan his son, "Why has not the son of Jesse come to the meal, either yesterday or today?"
1Sa 20:28 Jonathan answered Saul, "David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Bethlehem.
1Sa 20:29 He said, 'Let me go, for our clan holds a sacrifice in the city, and my brother has commanded me to
be there. So now, if I have found favor in your eyes, let me get away and see my brothers.' For this reason he
has not come to the king's table."
1Sa 20:30 Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said to him, "You son of a perverse,
rebellious woman, do I not know that you have chosen the son of Jesse to your own shame, and to the shame of
your mother's nakedness?
1Sa 20:31 For as long as the son of Jesse lives on the earth, neither you nor your kingdom shall be established.
Therefore send and bring him to me, for he shall surely die."
1Sa 20:32 Then Jonathan answered Saul his father, "Why should he be put to death? What has he done?"
1Sa 20:33 But Saul hurled his spear at him to strike him. So Jonathan knew that his father was determined to
put David to death.
1Sa 20:34 And Jonathan rose from the table in fierce anger and ate no food the second day of the month, for he
was grieved for David, because his father had disgraced him.
1Sa 20:35 In the morning Jonathan went out into the field to the appointment with David, and with him a little
boy.
1Sa 20:36 And he said to his boy, "Run and find the arrows that I shoot." As the boy ran, he shot an arrow
beyond him.
1Sa 20:37 And when the boy came to the place of the arrow that Jonathan had shot, Jonathan called after the
boy and said, "Is not the arrow beyond you?"
1Sa 20:38 And Jonathan called after the boy, "Hurry! Be quick! Do not stay!" So Jonathan's boy gathered up the
arrows and came to his master.
1Sa 20:39 But the boy knew nothing. Only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
1Sa 20:40 And Jonathan gave his weapons to his boy and said to him, "Go and carry them to the city."
1Sa 20:41 And as soon as the boy had gone, David rose from beside the stone heap and fell on his face to the
ground and bowed three times. And they kissed one another and wept with one another, David weeping the
most.
1Sa 20:42 Then Jonathan said to David, "Go in peace, because we have sworn both of us in the name of the
LORD, saying, 'The LORD shall be between me and you, and between my offspring and your offspring,
forever.'"And he rose and departed, and Jonathan went into the city.1Sa 21:1 Then David came to Nob to Ahimelech the priest. And Ahimelech came to meet David trembling and
said to him, "Why are you alone, and no one with you?"
1Sa 21:2 And David said to Ahimelech the priest, "The king has charged me with a matter and said to me, 'Let
no one know anything of the matter about which I send you, and with which I have charged you.' I have made an
appointment with the young men for such and such a place.
1Sa 21:3 Now then, what do you have on hand? Give me five loaves of bread, or whatever is here."
1Sa 21:4 And the priest answered David, "I have no common bread on hand, but there is holy bread- if the
young men have kept themselves from women."
1Sa 21:5 And David answered the priest, "Truly women have been kept from us as always when I go on an
expedition. The vessels of the young men are holy even when it is an ordinary journey. How much more today
will their vessels be holy?"
1Sa 21:6 So the priest gave him the holy bread, for there was no bread there but the bread of the Presence,
which is removed from before the LORD, to be replaced by hot bread on the day it is taken away.
1Sa 21:7 Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before the LORD. His name
was Doeg the Edomite, the chief of Saul's herdsmen.
1Sa 21:8 Then David said to Ahimelech, "Then have you not here a spear or a sword at hand? For I have
brought neither my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's business required haste."
1Sa 21:9 And the priest said, "The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom you struck down in the valley of Elah,
behold, it is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod. If you will take that, take it, for there is none but that
here." And David said, "There is none like that; give it to me."
1Sa 21:10 And David rose and fled that day from Saul and went to Achish the king of Gath.
1Sa 21:11 And the servants of Achish said to him, "Is not this David the king of the land? Did they not sing to
one another of him in dances, 'Saul has struck down his thousands, and David his ten thousands'?"
1Sa 21:12 And David took these words to heart and was much afraid of Achish the king of Gath.
1Sa 21:13 So he changed his behavior before them and pretended to be insane in their hands and made marks
on the doors of the gate and let his spittle run down his beard.
1Sa 21:14 Then Achish said to his servants, "Behold, you see the man is mad. Why then have you brought him
to me?
1Sa 21:15 Do I lack madmen, that you have brought this fellow to behave as a madman in my presence? Shall
this fellow come into my house?"
1Sa 22:1 David departed from there and escaped to the cave of Adullam. And when his brothers and all his
father's house heard it, they went down there to him.
1Sa 22:2 And everyone who was in distress, and everyone who was in debt, and everyone who was bitter in
soul, gathered to him. And he became captain over them. And there were with him about four hundred men.
1Sa 22:3 And David went from there to Mizpeh of Moab. And he said to the king of Moab, "Please let my father
and my mother stay with you, till I know what God will do for me."
1Sa 22:4 And he left them with the king of Moab, and they stayed with him all the time that David was in the
stronghold.
1Sa 22:5 Then the prophet Gad said to David, "Do not remain in the stronghold; depart, and go into the land of
Judah." So David departed and went into the forest of Hereth.
1Sa 22:6 Now Saul heard that David was discovered, and the men who were with him. Saul was sitting at
Gibeah under the tamarisk tree on the height with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about
him.
1Sa 22:7 And Saul said to his servants who stood about him, "Hear now, people of Benjamin; will the son of
Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards, will he make you all commanders of thousands and
commanders of hundreds,
1Sa 22:8 that all of you have conspired against me? No one discloses to me when my son makes a covenant
with the son of Jesse. None of you is sorry for me or discloses to me that my son has stirred up my servant
against me, to lie in wait, as at this day."
1Sa 22:9 Then answered Doeg the Edomite, who stood by the servants of Saul, "I saw the son of Jesse coming
to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub,
1Sa 22:10 and he inquired of the LORD for him and gave him provisions and gave him the sword of Goliath the
Philistine."
1Sa 22:11 Then the king sent to summon Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the
priests who were at Nob, and all of them came to the king.
1Sa 22:12 And Saul said, "Hear now, son of Ahitub." And he answered, "Here I am, my lord."
1Sa 22:13 And Saul said to him, "Why have you conspired against me, you and the son of Jesse, in that you
have given him bread and a sword and have inquired of God for him, so that he has risen against me, to lie in
wait, as at this day?"1Sa 22:14 Then Ahimelech answered the king, "And who among all your servants is so faithful as David, who is
the king's son-in-law, and captain over your bodyguard, and honored in your house?
1Sa 22:15 Is today the first time that I have inquired of God for him? No! Let not the king impute anything to his
servant or to all the house of my father, for your servant has known nothing of all this, much or little."
1Sa 22:16 And the king said, "You shall surely die, Ahimelech, you and all your father's house."
1Sa 22:17 And the king said to the guard who stood about him, "Turn and kill the priests of the LORD, because
their hand also is with David, and they knew that he fled and did not disclose it to me." But the servants of the
king would not put out their hand to strike the priests of the LORD.
1Sa 22:18 Then the king said to Doeg, "You turn and strike the priests." And Doeg the Edomite turned and
struck down the priests, and he killed on that day eighty-five persons who wore the linen ephod.
1Sa 22:19 And Nob, the city of the priests, he put to the sword; both man and woman, child and infant, ox,
donkey and sheep, he put to the sword.
1Sa 22:20 But one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped and fled after David.
1Sa 22:21 And Abiathar told David that Saul had killed the priests of the LORD.
1Sa 22:22 And David said to Abiathar, "I knew on that day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would
surely tell Saul. I have occasioned the death of all the persons of your father's house.
1Sa 22:23 Stay with me; do not be afraid, for he who seeks my life seeks your life. With me you shall be in
safekeeping."
1Sa 23:1 Now they told David, "Behold, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah and are robbing the threshing
floors."
1Sa 23:2 Therefore David inquired of the LORD, "Shall I go and attack these Philistines?" And the LORD said to
David, "Go and attack the Philistines and save Keilah."
1Sa 23:3 But David's men said to him, "Behold, we are afraid here in Judah; how much more then if we go to
Keilah against the armies of the Philistines?"
1Sa 23:4 Then David inquired of the LORD again. And the LORD answered him, "Arise, go down to Keilah, for I
will give the Philistines into your hand."
1Sa 23:5 And David and his men went to Keilah and fought with the Philistines and brought away their livestock
and struck them with a great blow. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
1Sa 23:6 When Abiathar the son of Ahim-elech had fled to David to Keilah, he had come down with an ephod in
his hand.
1Sa 23:7 Now it was told Saul that David had come to Keilah. And Saul said, "God has given him into my hand,
for he has shut himself in by entering a town that has gates and bars."
1Sa 23:8 And Saul summoned all the people to war, to go down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
1Sa 23:9 David knew that Saul was plotting harm against him. And he said to Abiathar the priest, "Bring the
ephod here."
1Sa 23:10 Then said David, "O LORD, the God of Israel, your servant has surely heard that Saul seeks to come
to Keilah, to destroy the city on my account.
1Sa 23:11 Will the men of Keilah surrender me into his hand? Will Saul come down, as your servant has heard?
O LORD, the God of Israel, please tell your servant." And the LORD said, "He will come down."
1Sa 23:12 Then David said, "Will the men of Keilah surrender me and my men into the hand of Saul?" And the
LORD said, "They will surrender you."
1Sa 23:13 Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, arose and departed from Keilah, and they
went wherever they could go. When Saul was told that David had escaped from Keilah, he gave up the
expedition.
1Sa 23:14 And David remained in the strongholds in the wilderness, in the hill country of the Wilderness of Ziph.
And Saul sought him every day, but God did not give him into his hand.
1Sa 23:15 David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life. David was in the Wilderness of Ziph at Horesh.
1Sa 23:16 And Jonathan, Saul's son, rose and went to David at Horesh, and strengthened his hand in God.
1Sa 23:17 And he said to him, "Do not fear, for the hand of Saul my father shall not find you. You shall be king
over Israel, and I shall be next to you. Saul my father also knows this."
1Sa 23:18 And the two of them made a covenant before the LORD. David remained at Horesh, and Jonathan
went home.
1Sa 23:19 Then the Ziphites went up to Saul at Gibeah, saying, "Is not David hiding among us in the
strongholds at Horesh, on the hill of Hachilah, which is south of Jeshimon?
1Sa 23:20 Now come down, O king, according to all your heart's desire to come down, and our part shall be to
surrender him into the king's hand."
1Sa 23:21 And Saul said, "May you be blessed by the LORD, for you have had compassion on me.
1Sa 23:22 Go, make yet more sure. Know and see the place where his foot is, and who has seen him there, for
it is told me that he is very cunning.1Sa 23:23 See therefore and take note of all the lurking places where he hides, and come back to me with sure
information. Then I will go with you. And if he is in the land, I will search him out among all the thousands of
Judah."
1Sa 23:24 And they arose and went to Ziph ahead of Saul. Now David and his men were in the wilderness of
Maon, in the Arabah to the south of Jeshimon.
1Sa 23:25 And Saul and his men went to seek him. And David was told, so he went down to the rock and lived
in the wilderness of Maon. And when Saul heard that, he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
1Sa 23:26 Saul went on one side of the mountain, and David and his men on the other side of the mountain.
And David was hurrying to get away from Saul. As Saul and his men were closing in on David and his men to
capture them,
1Sa 23:27 a messenger came to Saul, saying, "Hurry and come, for the Philistines have made a raid against the
land."
1Sa 23:28 So Saul returned from pursuing after David and went against the Philistines. Therefore that place
was called the Rock of Escape.
1Sa 23:29 And David went up from there and lived in the strongholds of Engedi.
1Sa 24:1 When Saul returned from fol- lowing the Philistines, he was told, "Behold, David is in the wilderness of
Engedi."
1Sa 24:2 Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel and went to seek David and his men in
front of the Wildgoats' Rocks.
1Sa 24:3 And he came to the sheepfolds by the way, where there was a cave, and Saul went in to relieve
himself. Now David and his men were sitting in the innermost parts of the cave.
1Sa 24:4 And the men of David said to him, "Here is the day of which the LORD said to you, 'Behold, I will give
your enemy into your hand, and you shall do to him as it shall seem good to you.'"Then David arose and
stealthily cut off a corner of Saul's robe.
1Sa 24:5 And afterward David's heart struck him, because he had cut off a corner of Saul's robe.
1Sa 24:6 He said to his men, "The LORD forbid that I should do this thing to my lord, the LORD's anointed, to
put out my hand against him, seeing he is the LORD's anointed."
1Sa 24:7 So David persuaded his men with these words and did not permit them to attack Saul. And Saul rose
up and left the cave and went on his way.
1Sa 24:8 Afterward David also arose and went out of the cave, and called after Saul, "My lord the king!" And
when Saul looked behind him, David bowed with his face to the earth and paid homage.
1Sa 24:9 And David said to Saul, "Why do you listen to the words of men who say, 'Behold, David seeks your
harm'?
1Sa 24:10 Behold, this day your eyes have seen how the LORD gave you today into my hand in the cave. And
some told me to kill you, but I spared you. I said, 'I will not put out my hand against my lord, for he is the LORD's
anointed.'
1Sa 24:11 See, my father, see the corner of your robe in my hand. For by the fact that I cut off the corner of
your robe and did not kill you, you may know and see that there is no wrong or treason in my hands. I have not
sinned against you, though you hunt my life to take it.
1Sa 24:12 May the LORD judge between me and you, may the LORD avenge me against you, but my hand
shall not be against you.
1Sa 24:13 As the proverb of the ancients says, 'Out of the wicked comes wickedness.' But my hand shall not be
against you.
1Sa 24:14 After whom has the king of Israel come out? After whom do you pursue? After a dead dog! After a
flea!
1Sa 24:15 May the LORD therefore be judge and give sentence between me and you, and see to it and plead
my cause and deliver me from your hand."
1Sa 24:16 As soon as David had finished speaking these words to Saul, Saul said, "Is this your voice, my son
David?" And Saul lifted up his voice and wept.
1Sa 24:17 He said to David, "You are more righteous than I, for you have repaid me good, whereas I have
repaid you evil.
1Sa 24:18 And you have declared this day how you have dealt well with me, in that you did not kill me when the
LORD put me into your hands.
1Sa 24:19 For if a man finds his enemy, will he let him go away safe? So may the LORD reward you with good
for what you have done to me this day.
1Sa 24:20 And now, behold, I know that you shall surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be
established in your hand.
1Sa 24:21 Swear to me therefore by the LORD that you will not cut off my offspring after me, and that you will
not destroy my name out of my father's house."1Sa 24:22 And David swore this to Saul. Then Saul went home, but David and his men went up to the
stronghold.
1Sa 25:1 Now Samuel died. And all Israel assembled and mourned for him, and they buried him in his house at
Ramah. Then David rose and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
1Sa 25:2 And there was a man in Maon whose business was in Carmel. The man was very rich; he had three
thousand sheep and a thousand goats. He was shearing his sheep in Carmel.
1Sa 25:3 Now the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigail. The woman was discerning
and beautiful, but the man was harsh and badly behaved; he was a Calebite.
1Sa 25:4 David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep.
1Sa 25:5 So David sent ten young men. And David said to the young men, "Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal
and greet him in my name.
1Sa 25:6 And thus you shall greet him: 'Peace be to you, and peace be to your house, and peace be to all that
you have.
1Sa 25:7 I hear that you have shearers. Now your shepherds have been with us, and we did them no harm, and
they missed nothing all the time they were in Carmel.
1Sa 25:8 Ask your young men, and they will tell you. Therefore let my young men find favor in your eyes, for we
come on a feast day. Please give whatever you have at hand to your servants and to your son David.'"
1Sa 25:9 When David's young men came, they said all this to Nabal in the name of David, and then they waited.
1Sa 25:10 And Nabal answered David's servants, "Who is David? Who is the son of Jesse? There are many
servants these days who are breaking away from their masters.
1Sa 25:11 Shall I take my bread and my water and my meat that I have killed for my shearers and give it to men
who come from I do not know where?"
1Sa 25:12 So David's young men turned away and came back and told him all this.
1Sa 25:13 And David said to his men, "Every man strap on his sword!" And every man of them strapped on his
sword. David also strapped on his sword. And about four hundred men went up after David, while two hundred
remained with the baggage.
1Sa 25:14 But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal's wife, "Behold, David sent messengers out of the
wilderness to greet our master, and he railed at them.
1Sa 25:15 Yet the men were very good to us, and we suffered no harm, and we did not miss anything when we
were in the fields, as long as we went with them.
1Sa 25:16 They were a wall to us both by night and by day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
1Sa 25:17 Now therefore know this and consider what you should do, for harm is determined against our master
and against all his house, and he is such a worthless man that one cannot speak to him."
1Sa 25:18 Then Abigail made haste and took two hundred loaves and two skins of wine and five sheep already
prepared and five seahs of parched grain and a hundred clusters of raisins and two hundred cakes of figs, and
laid them on donkeys.
1Sa 25:19 And she said to her young men, "Go on before me; behold, I come after you." But she did not tell her
husband Nabal.
1Sa 25:20 And as she rode on the donkey and came down under cover of the mountain, behold, David and his
men came down toward her, and she met them.
1Sa 25:21 Now David had said, "Surely in vain have I guarded all that this fellow has in the wilderness, so that
nothing was missed of all that belonged to him, and he has returned me evil for good.
1Sa 25:22 God do so to the enemies of David and more also, if by morning I leave so much as one male of all
who belong to him."
1Sa 25:23 When Abigail saw David, she hurried and got down from the donkey and fell before David on her
face and bowed to the ground.
1Sa 25:24 She fell at his feet and said, "On me alone, my lord, be the guilt. Please let your servant speak in
your ears, and hear the words of your servant.
1Sa 25:25 Let not my lord regard this worthless fellow, Nabal, for as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name,
and folly is with him. But I your servant did not see the young men of my lord, whom you sent.
1Sa 25:26 Now then, my lord, as the LORD lives, and as your soul lives, because the LORD has restrained you
from bloodguilt and from saving with your own hand, now then let your enemies and those who seek to do evil to
my lord be as Nabal.
1Sa 25:27 And now let this present that your servant has brought to my lord be given to the young men who
follow my lord.
1Sa 25:28 Please forgive the trespass of your servant. For the LORD will certainly make my lord a sure house,
because my lord is fighting the battles of the LORD, and evil shall not be found in you so long as you live.
1Sa 25:29 If men rise up to pursue you and to seek your life, the life of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of
the living in the care of the LORD your God. And the lives of your enemies he shall sling out as from the hollowof a sling.
1Sa 25:30 And when the LORD has done to my lord according to all the good that he has spoken concerning
you and has appointed you prince over Israel,
1Sa 25:31 my lord shall have no cause of grief or pangs of conscience for having shed blood without cause or
for my lord taking vengeance himself. And when the LORD has dealt well with my lord, then remember your
servant."
1Sa 25:32 And David said to Abigail, "Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, who sent you this day to meet
me!
1Sa 25:33 Blessed be your discretion, and blessed be you, who have kept me this day from bloodguilt and from
avenging myself with my own hand!
1Sa 25:34 For as surely as the LORD the God of Israel lives, who has restrained me from hurting you, unless
you had hurried and come to meet me, truly by morning there had not been left to Nabal so much as one male."
1Sa 25:35 Then David received from her hand what she had brought him. And he said to her, "Go up in peace
to your house. See, I have obeyed your voice, and I have granted your petition."
1Sa 25:36 And Abigail came to Nabal, and behold, he was holding a feast in his house, like the feast of a king.
And Nabal's heart was merry within him, for he was very drunk. So she told him nothing at all until the morning
light.
1Sa 25:37 In the morning, when the wine had gone out of Nabal, his wife told him these things, and his heart
died within him, and he became as a stone.
1Sa 25:38 And about ten days later the LORD struck Nabal, and he died.
1Sa 25:39 When David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, "Blessed be the LORD who has avenged the insult
I received at the hand of Nabal, and has kept back his servant from wrongdoing. The LORD has returned the evil
of Nabal on his own head." Then David sent and spoke to Abigail, to take her as his wife.
1Sa 25:40 When the servants of David came to Abigail at Carmel, they said to her, "David has sent us to you to
take you to him as his wife."
1Sa 25:41 And she rose and bowed with her face to the ground and said, "Behold, your handmaid is a servant
to wash the feet of the servants of my lord."
1Sa 25:42 And Abigail hurried and rose and mounted a donkey, and her five young women attended her. She
followed the messengers of David and became his wife.
1Sa 25:43 David also took Ahinoam of Jezreel, and both of them became his wives.
1Sa 25:44 Saul had given Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Palti the son of Laish, who was of Gallim.
1Sa 26:1 Then the Ziphites came to Saul at Gibeah, saying, "Is not David hiding himself on the hill of Hachilah,
which is on the east of Jeshimon?"
1Sa 26:2 So Saul arose and went down to the wilderness of Ziph with three thousand chosen men of Israel to
seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
1Sa 26:3 And Saul encamped on the hill of Hachilah, which is beside the road on the east of Jeshimon. But
David remained in the wilderness. When he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness,
1Sa 26:4 David sent out spies and learned that Saul had come.
1Sa 26:5 Then David rose and came to the place where Saul had encamped. And David saw the place where
Saul lay, with Abner the son of Ner, the commander of his army. Saul was lying within the encampment, while
the army was encamped around him.
1Sa 26:6 Then David said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Joab's brother Abishai the son of Zeruiah, "Who will
go down with me into the camp to Saul?" And Abishai said, "I will go down with you."
1Sa 26:7 So David and Abishai went to the army by night. And there lay Saul sleeping within the encampment,
with his spear stuck in the ground at his head, and Abner and the army lay around him.
1Sa 26:8 Then said Abishai to David, "God has given your enemy into your hand this day. Now please let me
pin him to the earth with one stroke of the spear, and I will not strike him twice."
1Sa 26:9 But David said to Abishai, "Do not destroy him, for who can put out his hand against the LORD's
anointed and be guiltless?"
1Sa 26:10 And David said, "As the LORD lives, the LORD will strike him, or his day will come to die, or he will
go down into battle and perish.
1Sa 26:11 The LORD forbid that I should put out my hand against the LORD's anointed. But take now the spear
that is at his head and the jar of water, and let us go."
1Sa 26:12 So David took the spear and the jar of water from Saul's head, and they went away. No man saw it or
knew it, nor did any awake, for they were all asleep, because a deep sleep from the LORD had fallen upon them.
1Sa 26:13 Then David went over to the other side and stood far off on the top of the hill, with a great space
between them.
1Sa 26:14 And David called to the army, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, "Will you not answer, Abner?"
Then Abner answered, "Who are you who calls to the king?"1Sa 26:15 And David said to Abner, "Are you not a man? Who is like you in Israel? Why then have you not kept
watch over your lord the king? For one of the people came in to destroy the king your lord.
1Sa 26:16 This thing that you have done is not good. As the LORD lives, you deserve to die, because you have
not kept watch over your lord, the LORD's anointed. And now see where the king's spear is and the jar of water
that was at his head."
1Sa 26:17 Saul recognized David's voice and said, "Is this your voice, my son David?" And David said, "It is my
voice, my lord, O king."
1Sa 26:18 And he said, "Why does my lord pursue after his servant? For what have I done? What evil is on my
hands?
1Sa 26:19 Now therefore let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If it is the LORD who has stirred you
up against me, may he accept an offering, but if it is men, may they be cursed before the LORD, for they have
driven me out this day that I should have no share in the heritage of the LORD, saying, 'Go, serve other gods.'
1Sa 26:20 Now therefore, let not my blood fall to the earth away from the presence of the LORD, for the king of
Israel has come out to seek a single flea like one who hunts a partridge in the mountains."
1Sa 26:21 Then Saul said, "I have sinned. Return, my son David, for I will no more do you harm, because my
life was precious in your eyes this day. Behold, I have acted foolishly, and have made a great mistake."
1Sa 26:22 And David answered and said, "Here is the spear, O king! Let one of the young men come over and
take it.
1Sa 26:23 The LORD rewards every man for his righteousness and his faithfulness, for the LORD gave you into
my hand today, and I would not put out my hand against the LORD's anointed.
1Sa 26:24 Behold, as your life was precious this day in my sight, so may my life be precious in the sight of the
LORD, and may he deliver me out of all tribulation."
1Sa 26:25 Then Saul said to David, "Blessed be you, my son David! You will do many things and will succeed in
them." So David went his way, and Saul returned to his place.
1Sa 27:1 Then David said in his heart, "Now I shall perish one day by the hand of Saul. There is nothing better
for me than that I should escape to the land of the Philistines. Then Saul will despair of seeking me any longer
within the borders of Israel, and I shall escape out of his hand."
1Sa 27:2 So David arose and went over, he and the six hundred men who were with him, to Achish the son of
Maoch, king of Gath.
1Sa 27:3 And David lived with Achish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, and David with
his two wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail of Carmel, Nabal's widow.
1Sa 27:4 And when it was told Saul that David had fled to Gath, he no longer sought him.
1Sa 27:5 Then David said to Achish, "If I have found favor in your eyes, let a place be given me in one of the
country towns, that I may dwell there. For why should your servant dwell in the royal city with you?"
1Sa 27:6 So that day Achish gave him Ziklag. Therefore Ziklag has belonged to the kings of Judah to this day.
1Sa 27:7 And the number of the days that David lived in the country of the Phil-istines was a year and four
months.
1Sa 27:8 Now David and his men went up and made raids against the Geshurites, the Girzites, and the
Amalekites, for these were the inhabitants of the land from of old, as far as Shur, to the land of Egypt.
1Sa 27:9 And David would strike the land and would leave neither man nor woman alive, but would take away
the sheep, the oxen, the donkeys, the camels, and the garments, and come back to Achish.
1Sa 27:10 When Achish asked, "Where have you made a raid today?" David would say, "Against the Negeb of
Judah," or, "Against the Negeb of the Jerahmeelites," or, "Against the Negeb of the Kenites."
1Sa 27:11 And David would leave neither man nor woman alive to bring news to Gath, thinking, "Lest they
should tell about us and say, 'So David has done.'"Such was his custom all the while he lived in the country of
the Philistines.
1Sa 27:12 And Achish trusted David, thinking, "He has made himself an utter stench to his people Israel;
therefore he shall always be my servant."
1Sa 28:1 In those days the Philistines gathered their forces for war, to fight against Israel. And Achish said to
David, "Understand that you and your men are to go out with me in the army."
1Sa 28:2 David said to Achish, "Very well, you shall know what your servant can do." And Achish said to David,
"Very well, I will make you my bodyguard for life."
1Sa 28:3 Now Samuel had died, and all Israel had mourned for him and buried him in Ramah, his own city. And
Saul had put the mediums and the necromancers out of the land.
1Sa 28:4 The Philistines assembled and came and encamped at Shunem. And Saul gathered all Israel, and
they encamped at Gilboa.
1Sa 28:5 When Saul saw the army of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly.
1Sa 28:6 And when Saul inquired of the LORD, the LORD did not answer him, either by dreams, or by Urim, or
by prophets.1Sa 28:7 Then Saul said to his servants, "Seek out for me a woman who is a medium, that I may go to her and
inquire of her." And his servants said to him, "Behold, there is a medium at En-dor."
1Sa 28:8 So Saul disguised himself and put on other garments and went, he and two men with him. And they
came to the woman by night. And he said, "Divine for me by a spirit and bring up for me whomever I shall name
to you."
1Sa 28:9 The woman said to him, "Surely you know what Saul has done, how he has cut off the mediums and
the necromancers from the land. Why then are you laying a trap for my life to bring about my death?"
1Sa 28:10 But Saul swore to her by the LORD, "As the LORD lives, no punishment shall come upon you for this
thing."
1Sa 28:11 Then the woman said, "Whom shall I bring up for you?" He said, "Bring up Samuel for me."
1Sa 28:12 When the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice. And the woman said to Saul, "Why
have you deceived me? You are Saul."
1Sa 28:13 The king said to her, "Do not be afraid. What do you see?" And the woman said to Saul, "I see a god
coming up out of the earth."
1Sa 28:14 He said to her, "What is his appearance?" And she said, "An old man is coming up, and he is
wrapped in a robe." And Saul knew that it was Samuel, and he bowed with his face to the ground and paid
homage.
1Sa 28:15 Then Samuel said to Saul, "Why have you disturbed me by bringing me up?" Saul answered, "I am in
great distress, for the Philistines are warring against me, and God has turned away from me and answers me no
more, either by prophets or by dreams. Therefore I have summoned you to tell me what I shall do."
1Sa 28:16 And Samuel said, "Why then do you ask me, since the LORD has turned from you and become your
enemy?
1Sa 28:17 The LORD has done to you as he spoke by me, for the LORD has torn the kingdom out of your hand
and given it to your neighbor, David.
1Sa 28:18 Because you did not obey the voice of the LORD and did not carry out his fierce wrath against
Amalek, therefore the LORD has done this thing to you this day.
1Sa 28:19 Moreover, the LORD will give Israel also with you into the hand of the Philistines, and tomorrow you
and your sons shall be with me. The LORD will give the army of Israel also into the hand of the Philistines."
1Sa 28:20 Then Saul fell at once full length on the ground, filled with fear because of the words of Samuel. And
there was no strength in him, for he had eaten nothing all day and all night.
1Sa 28:21 And the woman came to Saul, and when she saw that he was terrified, she said to him, "Behold, your
servant has obeyed you. I have taken my life in my hand and have listened to what you have said to me.
1Sa 28:22 Now therefore, you also obey your servant. Let me set a morsel of bread before you; and eat, that
you may have strength when you go on your way."
1Sa 28:23 He refused and said, "I will not eat." But his servants, together with the woman, urged him, and he
listened to their words. So he arose from the earth and sat on the bed.
1Sa 28:24 Now the woman had a fattened calf in the house, and she quickly killed it, and she took flour and
kneaded it and baked unleavened bread of it,
1Sa 28:25 and she put it before Saul and his servants, and they ate. Then they rose and went away that night.
1Sa 29:1 Now the Philistines had gathered all their forces at Aphek. And the Israelites were encamped by the
spring that is in Jezreel.
1Sa 29:2 As the lords of the Philistines were passing on by hundreds and by thousands, and David and his men
were passing on in the rear with Achish,
1Sa 29:3 the commanders of the Philistines said, "What are these Hebrews doing here?" And Achish said to the
commanders of the Philistines, "Is this not David, the servant of Saul, king of Israel, who has been with me now
for days and years, and since he deserted to me I have found no fault in him to this day."
1Sa 29:4 But the commanders of the Philistines were angry with him. And the commanders of the Philistines
said to him, "Send the man back, that he may return to the place to which you have assigned him. He shall not
go down with us to battle, lest in the battle he become an adversary to us. For how could this fellow reconcile
himself to his lord? Would it not be with the heads of the men here?
1Sa 29:5 Is not this David, of whom they sing to one another in dances, 'Saul has struck down his thousands,
and David his ten thousands'?"
1Sa 29:6 Then Achish called David and said to him, "As the LORD lives, you have been honest, and to me it
seems right that you should march out and in with me in the campaign. For I have found nothing wrong in you
from the day of your coming to me to this day. Nevertheless, the lords do not approve of you.
1Sa 29:7 So go back now; and go peaceably, that you may not displease the lords of the Philistines."
1Sa 29:8 And David said to Achish, "But what have I done? What have you found in your servant from the day I
entered your service until now, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?"
1Sa 29:9 And Achish answered David and said, "I know that you are as blameless in my sight as an angel ofGod. Nevertheless, the commanders of the Philistines have said, 'He shall not go up with us to the battle.'
1Sa 29:10 Now then rise early in the morning with the servants of your lord who came with you, and start early
in the morning, and depart as soon as you have light."
1Sa 29:11 So David set out with his men early in the morning to return to the land of the Philistines. But the
Philistines went up to Jezreel.
1Sa 30:1 Now when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, the Amalekites had made a raid against
the Negeb and against Ziklag. They had overcome Ziklag and burned it with fire
1Sa 30:2 and taken captive the women and all who were in it, both small and great. They killed no one, but
carried them off and went their way.
1Sa 30:3 And when David and his men came to the city, they found it burned with fire, and their wives and sons
and daughters taken captive.
1Sa 30:4 Then David and the people who were with him raised their voices and wept until they had no more
strength to weep.
1Sa 30:5 David's two wives also had been taken captive, Ahinoam of Jezreel and Abigail the widow of Nabal of
Carmel.
1Sa 30:6 And David was greatly distressed, for the people spoke of stoning him, because all the people were
bitter in soul, each for his sons and daughters. But David strengthened himself in the LORD his God.
1Sa 30:7 And David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, "Bring me the ephod." So Abiathar
brought the ephod to David.
1Sa 30:8 And David inquired of the LORD, "Shall I pursue after this band? Shall I overtake them?" He answered
him, "Pursue, for you shall surely overtake and shall surely rescue."
1Sa 30:9 So David set out, and the six hundred men who were with him, and they came to the brook Besor,
where those who were left behind stayed.
1Sa 30:10 But David pursued, he and four hundred men. Two hundred stayed behind, who were too exhausted
to cross the brook Besor.
1Sa 30:11 They found an Egyptian in the open country and brought him to David. And they gave him bread and
he ate. They gave him water to drink,
1Sa 30:12 and they gave him a piece of a cake of figs and two clusters of raisins. And when he had eaten, his
spirit revived, for he had not eaten bread or drunk water for three days and three nights.
1Sa 30:13 And David said to him, "To whom do you belong? And where are you from?" He said, "I am a young
man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite, and my master left me behind because I fell sick three days ago.
1Sa 30:14 We had made a raid against the Negeb of the Cherethites and against that which belongs to Judah
and against the Negeb of Caleb, and we burned Ziklag with fire."
1Sa 30:15 And David said to him, "Will you take me down to this band?" And he said, "Swear to me by God that
you will not kill me or deliver me into the hands of my master, and I will take you down to this band."
1Sa 30:16 And when he had taken him down, behold, they were spread abroad over all the land, eating and
drinking and dancing, because of all the great spoil they had taken from the land of the Philistines and from the
land of Judah.
1Sa 30:17 And David struck them down from twilight until the evening of the next day, and not a man of them
escaped, except four hundred young men, who mounted camels and fled.
1Sa 30:18 David recovered all that the Amalekites had taken, and David rescued his two wives.
1Sa 30:19 Nothing was missing, whether small or great, sons or daughters, spoil or anything that had been
taken. David brought back all.
1Sa 30:20 David also captured all the flocks and herds, and the people drove the livestock before him, and said,
"This is David's spoil."
1Sa 30:21 Then David came to the two hundred men who had been too exhausted to follow David, and who
had been left at the brook Besor. And they went out to meet David and to meet the people who were with him.
And when David came near to the people he greeted them.
1Sa 30:22 Then all the wicked and worthless fellows among the men who had gone with David said, "Because
they did not go with us, we will not give them any of the spoil that we have recovered, except that each man may
lead away his wife and children, and depart."
1Sa 30:23 But David said, "You shall not do so, my brothers, with what the LORD has given us. He has
preserved us and given into our hand the band that came against us.
1Sa 30:24 Who would listen to you in this matter? For as his share is who goes down into the battle, so shall his
share be who stays by the baggage. They shall share alike."
1Sa 30:25 And he made it a statute and a rule for Israel from that day forward to this day.
1Sa 30:26 When David came to Ziklag, he sent part of the spoil to his friends, the elders of Judah, saying, "Here
is a present for you from the spoil of the enemies of the LORD."
1Sa 30:27 It was for those in Bethel, in Ramoth of the Negeb, in Jattir,1Sa 30:28 in Aroer, in Siphmoth, in Esh-temoa,
1Sa 30:29 in Racal, in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, in the cities of the Ke-nites,
1Sa 30:30 in Hormah, in Bor-ashan, in Athach,
1Sa 30:31 in Hebron, for all the places where David and his men had roamed.
1Sa 31:1 Now the Philistines fought against Israel, and the men of Israel fled before the Philistines and fell slain
on Mount Gilboa.
1Sa 31:2 And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons, and the Philistines struck down Jonathan and
Abinadab and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
1Sa 31:3 The battle pressed hard against Saul, and the archers found him, and he was badly wounded by the
archers.
1Sa 31:4 Then Saul said to his armor-bearer, "Draw your sword, and thrust me through with it, lest these
uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and mistreat me." But his armor-bearer would not, for he feared
greatly. Therefore Saul took his own sword and fell upon it.
1Sa 31:5 And when his armor-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell upon his sword and died with him.
1Sa 31:6 Thus Saul died, and his three sons, and his armor-bearer, and all his men, on the same day together.
1Sa 31:7 And when the men of Israel who were on the other side of the valley and those beyond the Jordan
saw that the men of Israel had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they abandoned their cities and fled.
And the Philistines came and lived in them.
1Sa 31:8 The next day, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, they found Saul and his three sons fallen on
Mount Gilboa.
1Sa 31:9 So they cut off his head and stripped off his armor and sent messengers throughout the land of the
Philistines, to carry the good news to the house of their idols and to the people.
1Sa 31:10 They put his armor in the temple of Ashtaroth, and they fastened his body to the wall of Beth-shan.
1Sa 31:11 But when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul,
1Sa 31:12 all the valiant men arose and went all night and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from
the wall of Beth-shan, and they came to Jabesh and burned them there.
1Sa 31:13 And they took their bones and buried them under the tamarisk tree in Jabesh and fasted seven days.
2Sa 1:1 After the death of Saul, when David had returned from striking down the Amalekites, David remained
two days in Ziklag.
2Sa 1:2 And on the third day, behold, a man came from Saul's camp, with his clothes torn and dirt on his head.
And when he came to David, he fell to the ground and paid homage.
2Sa 1:3 David said to him, "Where do you come from?" And he said to him, "I have escaped from the camp of
Israel."
2Sa 1:4 And David said to him, "How did it go? Tell me." And he answered, "The people fled from the battle,
and also many of the people have fallen and are dead, and Saul and his son Jonathan are also dead."
2Sa 1:5 Then David said to the young man who told him, "How do you know that Saul and his son Jonathan are
dead?"
2Sa 1:6 And the young man who told him said, "By chance I happened to be on Mount Gilboa, and there was
Saul leaning on his spear, and behold, the chariots and the horsemen were close upon him.
2Sa 1:7 And when he looked behind him, he saw me, and called to me. And I answered, 'Here I am.'
2Sa 1:8 And he said to me, 'Who are you?' I answered him, 'I am an Amalekite.'
2Sa 1:9 And he said to me 'Stand beside me and kill me, for anguish has seized me, and yet my life still lingers.'
2Sa 1:10 So I stood beside him and killed him, because I was sure that he could not live after he had fallen. And
I took the crown that was on his head and the armlet that was on his arm, and I have brought them here to my
lord."
2Sa 1:11 Then David took hold of his clothes and tore them, and so did all the men who were with him.
2Sa 1:12 And they mourned and wept and fasted until evening for Saul and for Jonathan his son and for the
people of the LORD and for the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword.
2Sa 1:13 And David said to the young man who told him, "Where do you come from?" And he answered, "I am
the son of a sojourner, an Amalekite."
2Sa 1:14 David said to him, "How is it you were not afraid to put out your hand to destroy the LORD's
anointed?"
2Sa 1:15 Then David called one of the young men and said, "Go, execute him." And he struck him down so that
he died.
2Sa 1:16 And David said to him, "Your blood be on your head, for your own mouth has testified against you,
saying, 'I have killed the LORD's anointed.'"
2Sa 1:17 And David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and Jonathan his son,
2Sa 1:18 and he said it should be taught to the people of Judah; behold, it is written in the Book of Jashar. He
said:2Sa 1:19 "Your glory, O Israel, is slain on your high places! How the mighty have fallen!
2Sa 1:20 Tell it not in Gath, publish it not in the streets of Ashkelon, lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice,
lest the daughters of the uncircumcised exult.
2Sa 1:21 "You mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew or rain upon you, nor fields of offerings! For there the
shield of the mighty was defiled, the shield of Saul, not anointed with oil.
2Sa 1:22 "From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, the bow of Jonathan turned not back, and the
sword of Saul returned not empty.
2Sa 1:23 "Saul and Jonathan, beloved and lovely! In life and in death they were not divided; they were swifter
than eagles; they were stronger than lions.
2Sa 1:24 "You daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who clothed you luxuriously in scarlet, who put ornaments
of gold on your apparel.
2Sa 1:25 "How the mighty have fallen in the midst of the battle! "Jonathan lies slain on your high places.
2Sa 1:26 I am distressed for you, my brother Jonathan; very pleasant have you been to me; your love to me
was extraordinary, surpassing the love of women.
2Sa 1:27 "How the mighty have fallen, and the weapons of war perished!"
2Sa 2:1 After this David inquired of the LORD, "Shall I go up into any of the cities of Judah?" And the LORD
said to him, "Go up." David said, "To which shall I go up?" And he said, "To Hebron."
2Sa 2:2 So David went up there, and his two wives also, Ahinoam of Jezreel and Abigail the widow of Nabal of
Carmel.
2Sa 2:3 And David brought up his men who were with him, everyone with his household, and they lived in the
towns of Hebron.
2Sa 2:4 And the men of Judah came, and there they anointed David king over the house of Judah. When they
told David, "It was the men of Jabesh-gilead who buried Saul,"
2Sa 2:5 David sent messengers to the men of Jabesh-gilead and said to them, "May you be blessed by the
LORD, because you showed this loyalty to Saul your lord and buried him.
2Sa 2:6 Now may the LORD show steadfast love and faithfulness to you. And I will do good to you because you
have done this thing.
2Sa 2:7 Now therefore let your hands be strong, and be valiant, for Saul your lord is dead, and the house of
Judah has anointed me king over them."
2Sa 2:8 But Abner the son of Ner, commander of Saul's army, took Ish-bosheth the son of Saul and brought him
over to Mahanaim,
2Sa 2:9 and he made him king over Gilead and the Ashurites and Jezreel and Ephraim and Benjamin and all
Israel.
2Sa 2:10 Ish-bosheth, Saul's son, was forty years old when he began to reign over Israel, and he reigned two
years. But the house of Judah followed David.
2Sa 2:11 And the time that David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months.
2Sa 2:12 Abner the son of Ner, and the servants of Ish-bosheth the son of Saul, went out from Mahanaim to
Gibeon.
2Sa 2:13 And Joab the son of Zeruiah and the servants of David went out and met them at the pool of Gibeon.
And they sat down, the one on the one side of the pool, and the other on the other side of the pool.
2Sa 2:14 And Abner said to Joab, "Let the young men arise and compete before us." And Joab said, "Let them
arise."
2Sa 2:15 Then they arose and passed over by number, twelve for Benjamin and Ish-bosheth the son of Saul,
and twelve of the servants of David.
2Sa 2:16 And each caught his opponent by the head and thrust his sword in his opponent's side, so they fell
down together. Therefore that place was called Helkath-hazzurim, which is at Gibeon.
2Sa 2:17 And the battle was very fierce that day. And Abner and the men of Israel were beaten before the
servants of David.
2Sa 2:18 And the three sons of Zeruiah were there, Joab, Abishai, and Asahel. Now Asahel was as swift of foot
as a wild gazelle.
2Sa 2:19 And Asahel pursued Abner, and as he went, he turned neither to the right hand nor to the left from
following Abner.
2Sa 2:20 Then Abner looked behind him and said, "Is it you, Asahel?" And he answered, "It is I."
2Sa 2:21 Abner said to him, "Turn aside to your right hand or to your left, and seize one of the young men and
take his spoil." But Asahel would not turn aside from following him.
2Sa 2:22 And Abner said again to Asahel, "Turn aside from following me. Why should I strike you to the
ground? How then could I lift up my face to your brother Joab?"
2Sa 2:23 But he refused to turn aside. Therefore Abner struck him in the stomach with the butt of his spear, so
that the spear came out at his back. And he fell there and died where he was. And all who came to the placewhere Asahel had fallen and died, stood still.
2Sa 2:24 But Joab and Abishai pursued Abner. And as the sun was going down they came to the hill of Ammah,
which lies before Giah on the way to the wilderness of Gibeon.
2Sa 2:25 And the people of Benjamin gathered themselves together behind Abner and became one group and
took their stand on the top of a hill.
2Sa 2:26 Then Abner called to Joab, "Shall the sword devour forever? Do you not know that the end will be
bitter? How long will it be before you tell your people to turn from the pursuit of their brothers?"
2Sa 2:27 And Joab said, "As God lives, if you had not spoken, surely the men would not have given up the
pursuit of their brothers until the morning."
2Sa 2:28 So Joab blew the trumpet, and all the men stopped and pursued Israel no more, nor did they fight
anymore.
2Sa 2:29 And Abner and his men went all that night through the Arabah. They crossed the Jordan, and
marching the whole morning, they came to Mahanaim.
2Sa 2:30 Joab returned from the pursuit of Abner. And when he had gathered all the people together, there
were missing from David's servants nineteen men besides Asahel.
2Sa 2:31 But the servants of David had struck down of Benjamin 360 of Abner's men.
2Sa 2:32 And they took up Asahel and buried him in the tomb of his father, which was at Bethlehem. And Joab
and his men marched all night, and the day broke upon them at Hebron.
2Sa 3:1 There was a long war between the house of Saul and the house of David. And David grew stronger and
stronger, while the house of Saul became weaker and weaker.
2Sa 3:2 And sons were born to David at Hebron: his firstborn was Amnon, of Ahinoam of Jezreel;
2Sa 3:3 and his second, Chileab, of Abigail the widow of Nabal of Carmel; and the third, Absalom the son of
Maacah the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur;
2Sa 3:4 and the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith; and the fifth, Shephatiah the son of Abital;
2Sa 3:5 and the sixth, Ithream, of Eglah, David's wife. These were born to David in Hebron.
2Sa 3:6 While there was war between the house of Saul and the house of David, Abner was making himself
strong in the house of Saul.
2Sa 3:7 Now Saul had a concubine whose name was Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah. And Ish-bosheth said to
Abner, "Why have you gone in to my father's concubine?"
2Sa 3:8 Then Abner was very angry over the words of Ish-bosheth and said, "Am I a dog's head of Judah? To
this day I keep showing steadfast love to the house of Saul your father, to his brothers, and to his friends, and
have not given you into the hand of David. And yet you charge me today with a fault concerning a woman.
2Sa 3:9 God do so to Abner and more also, if I do not accomplish for David what the LORD has sworn to him,
2Sa 3:10 to transfer the kingdom from the house of Saul and set up the throne of David over Israel and over
Judah, from Dan to Beersheba."
2Sa 3:11 And Ish-bosheth could not answer Abner another word, because he feared him.
2Sa 3:12 And Abner sent messengers to David on his behalf, saying, "To whom does the land belong? Make
your covenant with me, and behold, my hand shall be with you to bring over all Israel to you."
2Sa 3:13 And he said, "Good; I will make a covenant with you. But one thing I require of you; that is, you shall
not see my face unless you first bring Michal, Saul's daughter, when you come to see my face."
2Sa 3:14 Then David sent messengers to Ish-bosheth, Saul's son, saying, "Give me my wife Michal, for whom I
paid the bridal price of a hundred foreskins of the Philistines."
2Sa 3:15 And Ish-bosheth sent and took her from her husband Paltiel the son of Laish.
2Sa 3:16 But her husband went with her, weeping after her all the way to Bahurim. Then Abner said to him,
"Go, return." And he returned.
2Sa 3:17 And Abner conferred with the el ders of Israel, saying, "For some time past you have been seeking
David as king over you.
2Sa 3:18 Now then bring it about, for the LORD has promised David, saying, 'By the hand of my servant David I
will save my people Israel from the hand of the Philistines, and from the hand of all their enemies.'"
2Sa 3:19 Abner also spoke to Benjamin. And then Abner went to tell David at Hebron all that Israel and the
whole house of Benjamin thought good to do.
2Sa 3:20 When Abner came with twenty men to David at Hebron, David made a feast for Abner and the men
who were with him.
2Sa 3:21 And Abner said to David, "I will arise and go and will gather all Israel to my lord the king, that they may
make a covenant with you, and that you may reign over all that your heart desires." So David sent Abner away,
and he went in peace.
2Sa 3:22 Just then the servants of David arrived with Joab from a raid, bringing much spoil with them. But
Abner was not with David at Hebron, for he had sent him away, and he had gone in peace.
2Sa 3:23 When Joab and all the army that was with him came, it was told Joab, "Abner the son of Ner came tothe king, and he has let him go, and he has gone in peace."
2Sa 3:24 Then Joab went to the king and said, "What have you done? Behold, Abner came to you. Why is it
that you have sent him away, so that he is gone?
2Sa 3:25 You know that Abner the son of Ner came to deceive you and to know your going out and your coming
in, and to know all that you are doing."
2Sa 3:26 When Joab came out from David's presence, he sent messengers after Abner, and they brought him
back from the cistern of Sirah. But David did not know about it.
2Sa 3:27 And when Abner returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside into the midst of the gate to speak with him
privately, and there he struck him in the stomach, so that he died, for the blood of Asahel his brother.
2Sa 3:28 Afterward, when David heard of it, he said, "I and my kingdom are forever guiltless before the LORD
for the blood of Abner the son of Ner.
2Sa 3:29 May it fall upon the head of Joab and upon all his father's house, and may the house of Joab never be
without one who has a discharge or who is leprous or who holds a spindle or who falls by the sword or who lacks
bread!"
2Sa 3:30 So Joab and Abishai his brother killed Abner, because he had put their brother Asahel to death in the
battle at Gibeon.
2Sa 3:31 Then David said to Joab and to all the people who were with him, "Tear your clothes and put on
sackcloth and mourn before Abner." And King David followed the bier.
2Sa 3:32 They buried Abner at Hebron. And the king lifted up his voice and wept at the grave of Abner, and all
the people wept.
2Sa 3:33 And the king lamented for Abner, saying, "Should Abner die as a fool dies?
2Sa 3:34 Your hands were not bound; your feet were not fettered; as one falls before the wicked you have
fallen." And all the people wept again over him.
2Sa 3:35 Then all the people came to persuade David to eat bread while it was yet day. But David swore,
saying, "God do so to me and more also, if I taste bread or anything else till the sun goes down!"
2Sa 3:36 And all the people took notice of it, and it pleased them, as everything that the king did pleased all the
people.
2Sa 3:37 So all the people and all Israel understood that day that it had not been the king's will to put to death
Abner the son of Ner.
2Sa 3:38 And the king said to his servants, "Do you not know that a prince and a great man has fallen this day
in Israel?
2Sa 3:39 And I was gentle today, though anointed king. These men, the sons of Zeruiah, are more severe than
I. The LORD repay the evildoer according to his wickedness!"
2Sa 4:1 When Ish-bosheth, Saul's son, heard that Abner had died at Hebron, his courage failed, and all Israel
was dismayed.
2Sa 4:2 Now Saul's son had two men who were captains of raiding bands; the name of the one was Baanah,
and the name of the other Rechab, sons of Rimmon a man of Benjamin from Beeroth ( for Beeroth also is
counted part of Benjamin;
2Sa 4:3 the Beerothites fled to Gittaim and have been sojourners there to this day).
2Sa 4:4 Jonathan, the son of Saul, had a son who was crippled in his feet. He was five years old when the news
about Saul and Jonathan came from Jezreel, and his nurse took him up and fled, and as she fled in her haste,
he fell and became lame. And his name was Mephibosheth.
2Sa 4:5 Now the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, Rechab and Baanah, set out, and about the heat of the day
they came to the house of Ish-bosheth as he was taking his noonday rest.
2Sa 4:6 And they came into the midst of the house as if to get wheat, and they stabbed him in the stomach.
Then Rechab and Baanah his brother escaped.
2Sa 4:7 When they came into the house, as he lay on his bed in his bedroom, they struck him and put him to
death and beheaded him. They took his head and went by the way of the Arabah all night,
2Sa 4:8 and brought the head of Ish-bosheth to David at Hebron. And they said to the king, "Here is the head of
Ish-bosheth, the son of Saul, your enemy, who sought your life. The LORD has avenged my lord the king this
day on Saul and on his offspring."
2Sa 4:9 But David answered Rechab and Baanah his brother, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, "As the
LORD lives, who has redeemed my life out of every adversity,
2Sa 4:10 when one told me, 'Behold, Saul is dead,' and thought he was bringing good news, I seized him and
killed him at Ziklag, which was the reward I gave him for his news.
2Sa 4:11 How much more, when wicked men have killed a righteous man in his own house on his bed, shall I
not now require his blood at your hand and destroy you from the earth?"
2Sa 4:12 And David commanded his young men, and they killed them and cut off their hands and feet and
hanged them beside the pool at Hebron. But they took the head of Ish-bosheth and buried it in the tomb of Abnerat Hebron.
2Sa 5:1 Then all the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron and said, "Behold, we are your bone and flesh.
2Sa 5:2 In times past, when Saul was king over us, it was you who led out and brought in Israel. And the LORD
said to you, 'You shall be shepherd of my people Israel, and you shall be prince over Israel.'"
2Sa 5:3 So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and King David made a covenant with them at
Hebron before the LORD, and they anointed David king over Israel.
2Sa 5:4 David was thirty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years.
2Sa 5:5 At Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months, and at Jerusalem he reigned over all
Israel and Judah thirty-three years.
2Sa 5:6 And the king and his men went to Jerusalem against the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, who said
to David, "You will not come in here, but the blind and the lame will ward you off"- thinking, "David cannot come
in here."
2Sa 5:7 Nevertheless, David took the stronghold of Zion, that is, the city of David.
2Sa 5:8 And David said on that day, "Whoever would strike the Jebusites, let him get up the water shaft to
attack 'the lame and the blind,' who are hated by David's soul." Therefore it is said, "The blind and the lame shall
not come into the house."
2Sa 5:9 And David lived in the stronghold and called it the city of David. And David built the city all around from
the Millo inward.
2Sa 5:10 And David became greater and greater, for the LORD, the God of hosts, was with him.
2Sa 5:11 And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar trees, also carpenters and masons who
built David a house.
2Sa 5:12 And David knew that the LORD had established him king over Israel, and that he had exalted his
kingdom for the sake of his people Israel.
2Sa 5:13 And David took more concubines and wives from Jerusalem, after he came from Hebron, and more
sons and daughters were born to David.
2Sa 5:14 And these are the names of those who were born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan,
Solomon,
2Sa 5:15 Ibhar, Elishua, Nepheg, Japhia,
2Sa 5:16 Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet.
2Sa 5:17 When the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over Israel, all the Philistines went up to
search for David. But David heard of it and went down to the stronghold.
2Sa 5:18 Now the Philistines had come and spread out in the Valley of Rephaim.
2Sa 5:19 And David inquired of the LORD, "Shall I go up against the Philistines? Will you give them into my
hand?" And the LORD said to David, "Go up, for I will certainly give the Philistines into your hand."
2Sa 5:20 And David came to Baal-perazim, and David defeated them there. And he said, "The LORD has burst
through my enemies before me like a bursting flood." Therefore the name of that place is called Baal-perazim.
2Sa 5:21 And the Philistines left their idols there, and David and his men carried them away.
2Sa 5:22 And the Philistines came up yet again and spread out in the Valley of Rephaim.
2Sa 5:23 And when David inquired of the LORD, he said, "You shall not go up; go around to their rear, and
come against them opposite the balsam trees.
2Sa 5:24 And when you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the balsam trees, then rouse yourself, for
then the LORD has gone out before you to strike down the army of the Philistines."
2Sa 5:25 And David did as the LORD commanded him, and struck down the Philistines from Geba to Gezer.
2Sa 6:1 David again gathered all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand.
2Sa 6:2 And David arose and went with all the people who were with him from Baale-judah to bring up from
there the ark of God, which is called by the name of the LORD of hosts who sits enthroned on the cherubim.
2Sa 6:3 And they carried the ark of God on a new cart and brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was
on the hill. And Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, were driving the new cart,
2Sa 6:4 with the ark of God, and Ahio went before the ark.
2Sa 6:5 And David and all the house of Israel were making merry before the LORD, with songs and lyres and
harps and tambourines and castanets and cymbals.
2Sa 6:6 And when they came to the threshing floor of Nacon, Uzzah put out his hand to the ark of God and took
hold of it, for the oxen stumbled.
2Sa 6:7 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzzah, and God struck him down there because of his
error, and he died there beside the ark of God.
2Sa 6:8 And David was angry because the LORD had burst forth against Uzzah. And that place is called Perezuzzah, to this day.
2Sa 6:9 And David was afraid of the LORD that day, and he said, "How can the ark of the LORD come to me?"
2Sa 6:10 So David was not willing to take the ark of the LORD into the city of David. But David took it aside tothe house of Obed-edom the Gittite.
2Sa 6:11 And the ark of the LORD remained in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite three months, and the
LORD blessed Obed-edom and all his household.
2Sa 6:12 And it was told King David, "The LORD has blessed the household of Obed-edom and all that belongs
to him, because of the ark of God." So David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed-edom
to the city of David with rejoicing.
2Sa 6:13 And when those who bore the ark of the LORD had gone six steps, he sacrificed an ox and a fattened
animal.
2Sa 6:14 And David danced before the LORD with all his might. And David was wearing a linen ephod.
2Sa 6:15 So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the LORD with shouting and with the sound
of the horn.
2Sa 6:16 As the ark of the LORD came into the city of David, Michal the daughter of Saul looked out of the
window and saw King David leaping and dancing before the LORD, and she despised him in her heart.
2Sa 6:17 And they brought in the ark of the LORD and set it in its place, inside the tent that David had pitched
for it. And David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the LORD.
2Sa 6:18 And when David had finished offering the burnt offerings and the peace offerings, he blessed the
people in the name of the LORD of hosts
2Sa 6:19 and distributed among all the people, the whole multitude of Israel, both men and women, a cake of
bread, a portion of meat, and a cake of raisins to each one. Then all the people departed, each to his house.
2Sa 6:20 And David returned to bless his household. But Michal the daughter of Saul came out to meet David
and said, "How the king of Israel honored himself today, uncovering himself today before the eyes of his
servants' female servants, as one of the vulgar fellows shamelessly uncovers himself!"
2Sa 6:21 And David said to Michal, "It was before the LORD, who chose me above your father and above all his
house, to appoint me as prince over Israel, the people of the LORD- and I will make merry before the LORD.
2Sa 6:22 I will make myself yet more contemptible than this, and I will be abased in your eyes. But by the
female servants of whom you have spoken, by them I shall be held in honor."
2Sa 6:23 And Michal the daughter of Saul had no child to the day of her death.
2Sa 7:1 Now when the king lived in his house and the LORD had given him rest from all his surrounding
enemies,
2Sa 7:2 the king said to Nathan the prophet, "See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwells in
a tent."
2Sa 7:3 And Nathan said to the king, "Go, do all that is in your heart, for the LORD is with you."
2Sa 7:4 But that same night the word of the LORD came to Nathan,
2Sa 7:5 "Go and tell my servant David, 'Thus says the LORD: Would you build me a house to dwell in?
2Sa 7:6 I have not lived in a house since the day I brought up the people of Israel from Egypt to this day, but I
have been moving about in a tent for my dwelling.
2Sa 7:7 In all places where I have moved with all the people of Israel, did I speak a word with any of the judges
of Israel, whom I commanded to shepherd my people Israel, saying, "Why have you not built me a house of
cedar?"'
2Sa 7:8 Now, therefore, thus you shall say to my servant David, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, I took you from
the pasture, from following the sheep, that you should be prince over my people Israel.
2Sa 7:9 And I have been with you wherever you went and have cut off all your enemies from before you. And I
will make for you a great name, like the name of the great ones of the earth.
2Sa 7:10 And I will appoint a place for my people Israel and will plant them, so that they may dwell in their own
place and be disturbed no more. And violent men shall afflict them no more, as formerly,
2Sa 7:11 from the time that I appointed judges over my people Israel. And I will give you rest from all your
enemies. Moreover, the LORD declares to you that the LORD will make you a house.
2Sa 7:12 When your days are fulfilled and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you,
who shall come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom.
2Sa 7:13 He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever.
2Sa 7:14 I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. When he commits iniquity, I will discipline him
with the rod of men, with the stripes of the sons of men,
2Sa 7:15 but my steadfast love will not depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away from before
you.
2Sa 7:16 And your house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before me. Your throne shall be
established forever.'"
2Sa 7:17 In accordance with all these words, and in accordance with all this vision, Nathan spoke to David.
2Sa 7:18 Then King David went in and sat before the LORD and said, "Who am I, O Lord GOD, and what is my
house, that you have brought me thus far?2Sa 7:19 And yet this was a small thing in your eyes, O Lord GOD. You have spoken also of your servant's
house for a great while to come, and this is instruction for mankind, O Lord GOD!
2Sa 7:20 And what more can David say to you? For you know your servant, O Lord GOD!
2Sa 7:21 Because of your promise, and according to your own heart, you have brought about all this greatness,
to make your servant know it.
2Sa 7:22 Therefore you are great, O LORD God. For there is none like you, and there is no God besides you,
according to all that we have heard with our ears.
2Sa 7:23 And who is like your people Israel, the one nation on earth whom God went to redeem to be his
people, making himself a name and doing for them great and awesome things by driving out before your people,
whom you redeemed for yourself from Egypt, a nation and its gods?
2Sa 7:24 And you established for yourself your people Israel to be your people forever. And you, O LORD,
became their God.
2Sa 7:25 And now, O LORD God, confirm forever the word that you have spoken concerning your servant and
concerning his house, and do as you have spoken.
2Sa 7:26 And your name will be magnified forever, saying, 'The LORD of hosts is God over Israel,' and the
house of your servant David will be established before you.
2Sa 7:27 For you, O LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, have made this revelation to your servant, saying, 'I will
build you a house.' Therefore your servant has found courage to pray this prayer to you.
2Sa 7:28 And now, O Lord GOD, you are God, and your words are true, and you have promised this good thing
to your servant.
2Sa 7:29 Now therefore may it please you to bless the house of your servant, so that it may continue forever
before you. For you, O Lord GOD, have spoken, and with your blessing shall the house of your servant be
blessed forever."
2Sa 8:1 After this David defeated the Philistines and subdued them, and David took Metheg-ammah out of the
hand of the Philistines.
2Sa 8:2 And he defeated Moab and he measured them with a line, making them lie down on the ground. Two
lines he measured to be put to death, and one full line to be spared. And the Moabites became servants to David
and brought tribute.
2Sa 8:3 David also defeated Hadadezer the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to restore his power at the
river Euphrates.
2Sa 8:4 And David took from him 1,700 horsemen, and 20,000 foot soldiers. And David hamstrung all the
chariot horses but left enough for a hundred chariots.
2Sa 8:5 And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David struck down 22,000
men of the Syrians.
2Sa 8:6 Then David put garrisons in Aram of Damascus, and the Syrians became servants to David and
brought tribute. And the LORD gave victory to David wherever he went.
2Sa 8:7 And David took the shields of gold that were carried by the servants of Hadadezer and brought them to
Jerusalem.
2Sa 8:8 And from Betah and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, King David took very much bronze.
2Sa 8:9 When Toi king of Hamath heard that David had defeated the whole army of Hadadezer,
2Sa 8:10 Toi sent his son Joram to King David, to ask about his health and to bless him because he had fought
against Hadadezer and defeated him, for Hadadezer had often been at war with Toi. And Joram brought with
him articles of silver, of gold, and of bronze.
2Sa 8:11 These also King David dedicated to the LORD, together with the silver and gold that he dedicated
from all the nations he subdued,
2Sa 8:12 from Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines, Amalek, and from the spoil of Hadadezer the son of
Rehob, king of Zobah.
2Sa 8:13 And David made a name for himself when he returned from striking down 18,000 Edomites in the
Valley of Salt.
2Sa 8:14 Then he put garrisons in Edom; throughout all Edom he put garrisons, and all the Edomites became
David's servants. And the LORD gave victory to David wherever he went.
2Sa 8:15 So David reigned over all Israel. And David administered justice and equity to all his people.
2Sa 8:16 Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder,
2Sa 8:17 and Zadok the son of Ahitub and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar were priests, and Seraiah was
secretary,
2Sa 8:18 and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and David's sons were
priests.
2Sa 9:1 And David said, "Is there still anyone left of the house of Saul, that I may show him kindness for
Jonathan's sake?"2Sa 9:2 Now there was a servant of the house of Saul whose name was Ziba, and they called him to David. And
the king said to him, "Are you Ziba?" And he said, "I am your servant."
2Sa 9:3 And the king said, "Is there not still someone of the house of Saul, that I may show the kindness of God
to him?" Ziba said to the king, "There is still a son of Jonathan; he is crippled in his feet."
2Sa 9:4 The king said to him, "Where is he?" And Ziba said to the king, "He is in the house of Machir the son of
Ammiel, at Lo-debar."
2Sa 9:5 Then King David sent and brought him from the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, at Lo-debar.
2Sa 9:6 And Mephibosheth the son of Jonathan, son of Saul, came to David and fell on his face and paid
homage. And David said, "Mephibosheth!" And he answered, "Behold, I am your servant."
2Sa 9:7 And David said to him, "Do not fear, for I will show you kindness for the sake of your father Jonathan,
and I will restore to you all the land of Saul your father, and you shall eat at my table always."
2Sa 9:8 And he paid homage and said, "What is your servant, that you should show regard for a dead dog such
as I?"
2Sa 9:9 Then the king called Ziba, Saul's servant, and said to him, "All that belonged to Saul and to all his
house I have given to your master's grandson.
2Sa 9:10 And you and your sons and your servants shall till the land for him and shall bring in the produce, that
your master's grandson may have bread to eat. But Mephibosheth your master's grandson shall always eat at
my table." Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants.
2Sa 9:11 Then Ziba said to the king, "According to all that my lord the king commands his servant, so will your
servant do." So Mephibosheth ate at David's table, like one of the king's sons.
2Sa 9:12 And Mephibosheth had a young son, whose name was Mica. And all who lived in Ziba's house
became Mephibosheth's servants.
2Sa 9:13 So Mephibosheth lived in Jerusalem, for he ate always at the king's table. Now he was lame in both
his feet.
2Sa 10:1 After this the king of the Ammonites died, and Hanun his son reigned in his place.
2Sa 10:2 And David said, "I will deal loyally with Hanun the son of Nahash, as his father dealt loyally with me."
So David sent by his servants to console him concerning his father. And David's servants came into the land of
the Ammonites.
2Sa 10:3 But the princes of the Ammonites said to Hanun their lord, "Do you think, because David has sent
comforters to you, that he is honoring your father? Has not David sent his servants to you to search the city and
to spy it out and to overthrow it?"
2Sa 10:4 So Hanun took David's servants and shaved off half the beard of each and cut off their garments in
the middle, at their hips, and sent them away.
2Sa 10:5 When it was told David, he sent to meet them, for the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said,
"Remain at Jericho until your beards have grown and then return."
2Sa 10:6 When the Ammonites saw that they had become a stench to David, the Ammonites sent and hired the
Syrians of Beth-rehob, and the Syrians of Zobah, 20,000 foot soldiers, and the king of Maacah with 1,000 men,
and the men of Tob, 12,000 men.
2Sa 10:7 And when David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the host of the mighty men.
2Sa 10:8 And the Ammonites came out and drew up in battle array at the entrance of the gate, and the Syrians
of Zobah and of Rehob and the men of Tob and Maacah were by themselves in the open country.
2Sa 10:9 When Joab saw that the battle was set against him both in front and in the rear, he chose some of the
best men of Israel and arrayed them against the Syrians.
2Sa 10:10 The rest of his men he put in the charge of Abishai his brother, and he arrayed them against the
Ammonites.
2Sa 10:11 And he said, "If the Syrians are too strong for me, then you shall help me, but if the Ammonites are
too strong for you, then I will come and help you.
2Sa 10:12 Be of good courage, and let us be courageous for our people, and for the cities of our God, and may
the LORD do what seems good to him."
2Sa 10:13 So Joab and the people who were with him drew near to battle against the Syrians, and they fled
before him.
2Sa 10:14 And when the Ammonites saw that the Syrians fled, they likewise fled before Abishai and entered the
city. Then Joab returned from fighting against the Ammonites and came to Jerusalem.
2Sa 10:15 But when the Syrians saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they gathered themselves together.
2Sa 10:16 And Hadadezer sent and brought out the Syrians who were beyond the Euphrates. They came to
Helam, with Shobach the commander of the army of Hadadezer at their head.
2Sa 10:17 And when it was told David, he gathered all Israel together and crossed the Jordan and came to
Helam. The Syrians arrayed themselves against David and fought with him.
2Sa 10:18 And the Syrians fled before Israel, and David killed of the Syrians the men of 700 chariots, and40,000 horsemen, and wounded Shobach the commander of their army, so that he died there.
2Sa 10:19 And when all the kings who were servants of Hadadezer saw that they had been defeated by Israel,
they made peace with Israel and became subject to them. So the Syrians were afraid to save the Am-monites
anymore.
2Sa 11:1 , In the spring of the year, the time when kings go out to battle, David sent Joab, and his servants with
him, and all Israel. And they ravaged the Ammonites and besieged Rabbah. But David remained at Jerusalem.
2Sa 11:2 It happened, late one afternoon, when David arose from his couch and was walking on the roof of the
king's house, that he saw from the roof a woman bathing; and the woman was very beautiful.
2Sa 11:3 And David sent and inquired about the woman. And one said, "Is not this Bathsheba, the daughter of
Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite?"
2Sa 11:4 So David sent messengers and took her, and she came to him, and he lay with her. ( Now she had
been purifying herself from her uncleanness.) Then she returned to her house.
2Sa 11:5 And the woman conceived, and she sent and told David, "I am pregnant."
2Sa 11:6 So David sent word to Joab, "Send me Uriah the Hittite." And Joab sent Uriah to David.
2Sa 11:7 When Uriah came to him, David asked how Joab was doing and how the people were doing and how
the war was going.
2Sa 11:8 Then David said to Uriah, "Go down to your house and wash your feet." And Uriah went out of the
king's house, and there followed him a present from the king.
2Sa 11:9 But Uriah slept at the door of the king's house with all the servants of his lord, and did not go down to
his house.
2Sa 11:10 When they told David, "Uriah did not go down to his house," David said to Uriah, "Have you not come
from a journey? Why did you not go down to your house?"
2Sa 11:11 Uriah said to David, "The ark and Israel and Judah dwell in booths, and my lord Joab and the
servants of my lord are camping in the open field. Shall I then go to my house, to eat and to drink and to lie with
my wife? As you live, and as your soul lives, I will not do this thing."
2Sa 11:12 Then David said to Uriah, "Remain here today also, and tomorrow I will send you back." So Uriah
remained in Jerusalem that day and the next.
2Sa 11:13 And David invited him, and he ate in his presence and drank, so that he made him drunk. And in the
evening he went out to lie on his couch with the servants of his lord, but he did not go down to his house.
2Sa 11:14 In the morning David wrote a letter to Joab and sent it by the hand of Uriah.
2Sa 11:15 In the letter he wrote, "Set Uriah in the forefront of the hardest fighting, and then draw back from him,
that he may be struck down, and die."
2Sa 11:16 And as Joab was besieging the city, he assigned Uriah to the place where he knew there were
valiant men.
2Sa 11:17 And the men of the city came out and fought with Joab, and some of the servants of David among
the people fell. Uriah the Hittite also died.
2Sa 11:18 Then Joab sent and told David all the news about the fighting.
2Sa 11:19 And he instructed the messenger, "When you have finished telling all the news about the fighting to
the king,
2Sa 11:20 then, if the king's anger rises, and if he says to you, 'Why did you go so near the city to fight? Did you
not know that they would shoot from the wall?
2Sa 11:21 Who killed Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth? Did not a woman cast an upper millstone on him
from the wall, so that he died at Thebez? Why did you go so near the wall?' then you shall say, 'Your servant
Uriah the Hittite is dead also.'"
2Sa 11:22 So the messenger went and came and told David all that Joab had sent him to tell.
2Sa 11:23 The messenger said to David, "The men gained an advantage over us and came out against us in
the field, but we drove them back to the entrance of the gate.
2Sa 11:24 Then the archers shot at your servants from the wall. Some of the king's servants are dead, and your
servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also."
2Sa 11:25 David said to the messenger, "Thus shall you say to Joab, 'Do not let this matter trouble you, for the
sword devours now one and now another. Strengthen your attack against the city and overthrow it.' And
encourage him."
2Sa 11:26 When the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah her husband was dead, she lamented over her husband.
2Sa 11:27 And when the mourning was over, David sent and brought her to his house, and she became his wife
and bore him a son. But the thing that David had done displeased the LORD.
2Sa 12:1 And the LORD sent Nathan to David. He came to him and said to him, "There were two men in a
certain city, the one rich and the other poor.
2Sa 12:2 The rich man had very many flocks and herds,
2Sa 12:3 but the poor man had nothing but one little ewe lamb, which he had bought. And he brought it up, andit grew up with him and with his children. It used to eat of his morsel and drink from his cup and lie in his arms,
and it was like a daughter to him.
2Sa 12:4 Now there came a traveler to the rich man, and he was unwilling to take one of his own flock or herd to
prepare for the guest who had come to him, but he took the poor man's lamb and prepared it for the man who
had come to him."
2Sa 12:5 Then David's anger was greatly kindled against the man, and he said to Nathan, "As the LORD lives,
the man who has done this deserves to die,
2Sa 12:6 and he shall restore the lamb fourfold, because he did this thing, and because he had no pity."
2Sa 12:7 Nathan said to David, "You are the man! Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, 'I anointed you king
over Israel, and I delivered you out of the hand of Saul.
2Sa 12:8 And I gave you your master's house and your master's wives into your arms and gave you the house
of Israel and of Judah. And if this were too little, I would add to you as much more.
2Sa 12:9 Why have you despised the word of the LORD, to do what is evil in his sight? You have struck down
Uriah the Hittite with the sword and have taken his wife to be your wife and have killed him with the sword of the
Ammonites.
2Sa 12:10 Now therefore the sword shall never depart from your house, because you have despised me and
have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife.'
2Sa 12:11 Thus says the LORD, 'Behold, I will raise up evil against you out of your own house. And I will take
your wives before your eyes and give them to your neighbor, and he shall lie with your wives in the sight of this
sun.
2Sa 12:12 For you did it secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel and before the sun.'"
2Sa 12:13 David said to Nathan, "I have sinned against the LORD." And Nathan said to David, "The LORD also
has put away your sin; you shall not die.
2Sa 12:14 Nevertheless, because by this deed you have utterly scorned the LORD, the child who is born to you
shall die."
2Sa 12:15 Then Nathan went to his house. And the LORD afflicted the child that Uriah's wife bore to David, and
he became sick.
2Sa 12:16 David therefore sought God on behalf of the child. And David fasted and went in and lay all night on
the ground.
2Sa 12:17 And the elders of his house stood beside him, to raise him from the ground, but he would not, nor did
he eat food with them.
2Sa 12:18 On the seventh day the child died. And the servants of David were afraid to tell him that the child was
dead, for they said, "Behold, while the child was yet alive, we spoke to him, and he did not listen to us. How then
can we say to him the child is dead? He may do himself some harm."
2Sa 12:19 But when David saw that his servants were whispering together, David understood that the child was
dead. And David said to his servants, "Is the child dead?" They said, "He is dead."
2Sa 12:20 Then David arose from the earth and washed and anointed himself and changed his clothes. And he
went into the house of the LORD and worshiped. He then went to his own house. And when he asked, they set
food before him, and he ate.
2Sa 12:21 Then his servants said to him, "What is this thing that you have done? You fasted and wept for the
child while he was alive; but when the child died, you arose and ate food."
2Sa 12:22 He said, "While the child was still alive, I fasted and wept, for I said, 'Who knows whether the LORD
will be gracious to me, that the child may live?'
2Sa 12:23 But now he is dead. Why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he will not
return to me."
2Sa 12:24 Then David comforted his wife, Bathsheba, and went in to her and lay with her, and she bore a son,
and he called his name Solomon. And the LORD loved him
2Sa 12:25 and sent a message by Nathan the prophet. So he called his name Jedidiah, because of the LORD.
2Sa 12:26 Now Joab fought against Rabbah of the Ammonites and took the royal city.
2Sa 12:27 And Joab sent messengers to David and said, "I have fought against Rabbah; moreover, I have
taken the city of waters.
2Sa 12:28 Now then gather the rest of the people together and encamp against the city and take it, lest I take
the city and it be called by my name."
2Sa 12:29 So David gathered all the people together and went to Rabbah and fought against it and took it.
2Sa 12:30 And he took the crown of their king from his head. The weight of it was a talent of gold, and in it was
a precious stone, and it was placed on David's head. And he brought out the spoil of the city, a very great
amount.
2Sa 12:31 And he brought out the people who were in it and set them to labor with saws and iron picks and iron
axes and made them toil at the brick kilns. And thus he did to all the cities of the Ammonites. Then David and allthe people returned to Jerusalem.
2Sa 13:1 Now Absalom, David's son, had a beautiful sister, whose name was Tamar. And after a time Amnon,
David's son, loved her.
2Sa 13:2 And Amnon was so tormented that he made himself ill because of his sister Tamar, for she was a
virgin, and it seemed impossible to Amnon to do anything to her.
2Sa 13:3 But Amnon had a friend, whose name was Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David's brother. And
Jonadab was a very crafty man.
2Sa 13:4 And he said to him, "O son of the king, why are you so haggard morning after morning? Will you not
tell me?" Amnon said to him, "I love Tamar, my brother Absalom's sister."
2Sa 13:5 Jonadab said to him, "Lie down on your bed and pretend to be ill. And when your father comes to see
you, say to him, 'Let my sister Tamar come and give me bread to eat, and prepare the food in my sight, that I
may see it and eat it from her hand.'"
2Sa 13:6 So Amnon lay down and pretended to be ill. And when the king came to see him, Amnon said to the
king, "Please let my sister Tamar come and make a couple of cakes in my sight, that I may eat from her hand."
2Sa 13:7 Then David sent home to Tamar, saying, "Go to your brother Amnon's house and prepare food for
him."
2Sa 13:8 So Tamar went to her brother Amnon's house, where he was lying down. And she took dough and
kneaded it and made cakes in his sight and baked the cakes.
2Sa 13:9 And she took the pan and emptied it out before him, but he refused to eat. And Amnon said, "Send out
everyone from me." So everyone went out from him.
2Sa 13:10 Then Amnon said to Tamar, "Bring the food into the chamber, that I may eat from your hand." And
Tamar took the cakes she had made and brought them into the chamber to Amnon her brother.
2Sa 13:11 But when she brought them near him to eat, he took hold of her and said to her, "Come, lie with me,
my sister."
2Sa 13:12 She answered him, "No, my brother, do not violate me, for such a thing is not done in Israel; do not
do this outrageous thing.
2Sa 13:13 As for me, where could I carry my shame? And as for you, you would be as one of the outrageous
fools in Israel. Now therefore, please speak to the king, for he will not withhold me from you."
2Sa 13:14 But he would not listen to her, and being stronger than she, he violated her and lay with her.
2Sa 13:15 Then Amnon hated her with very great hatred, so that the hatred with which he hated her was greater
than the love with which he had loved her. And Amnon said to her, "Get up! Go!"
2Sa 13:16 But she said to him, "No, my brother, for this wrong in sending me away is greater than the other that
you did to me." But he would not listen to her.
2Sa 13:17 He called the young man who served him and said, "Put this woman out of my presence and bolt the
door after her."
2Sa 13:18 Now she was wearing a long robe with sleeves, for thus were the virgin daughters of the king
dressed. So his servant put her out and bolted the door after her.
2Sa 13:19 And Tamar put ashes on her head and tore the long robe that she wore. And she laid her hand on
her head and went away, crying aloud as she went.
2Sa 13:20 And her brother Absalom said to her, "Has Amnon your brother been with you? Now hold your
peace, my sister. He is your brother; do not take this to heart." So Tamar lived, a desolate woman, in her brother
Absalom's house.
2Sa 13:21 When King David heard of all these things, he was very angry.
2Sa 13:22 But Absalom spoke to Amnon neither good nor bad, for Absalom hated Amnon, because he had
violated his sister Tamar.
2Sa 13:23 After two full years Absalom had sheepshearers at Baal-hazor, which is near Ephraim, and Absalom
invited all the king's sons.
2Sa 13:24 And Absalom came to the king and said, "Behold, your servant has sheepshearers. Please let the
king and his servants go with your servant."
2Sa 13:25 But the king said to Absalom, "No, my son, let us not all go, lest we be burdensome to you." He
pressed him, but he would not go but gave him his blessing.
2Sa 13:26 Then Absalom said, "If not, please let my brother Amnon go with us." And the king said to him, "Why
should he go with you?"
2Sa 13:27 But Absalom pressed him until he let Amnon and all the king's sons go with him.
2Sa 13:28 Then Absalom commanded his servants, "Mark when Amnon's heart is merry with wine, and when I
say to you, 'Strike Amnon,' then kill him. Do not fear; have I not commanded you? Be courageous and be
valiant."
2Sa 13:29 So the servants of Absalom did to Amnon as Absalom had commanded. Then all the king's sons
arose, and each mounted his mule and fled.2Sa 13:30 While they were on the way, news came to David, "Absalom has struck down all the king's sons, and
not one of them is left."
2Sa 13:31 Then the king arose and tore his garments and lay on the earth. And all his servants who were
standing by tore their garments.
2Sa 13:32 But Jonadab the son of Shimeah, David's brother, said, "Let not my lord suppose that they have
killed all the young men the king's sons, for Amnon alone is dead. For by the command of Absalom this has
been determined from the day he violated his sister Tamar.
2Sa 13:33 Now therefore let not my lord the king so take it to heart as to suppose that all the king's sons are
dead, for Amnon alone is dead."
2Sa 13:34 But Absalom fled. And the young man who kept the watch lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold,
many people were coming from the road behind him by the side of the mountain.
2Sa 13:35 And Jonadab said to the king, "Behold, the king's sons have come; as your servant said, so it has
come about."
2Sa 13:36 And as soon as he had finished speaking, behold, the king's sons came and lifted up their voice and
wept. And the king also and all his servants wept very bitterly.
2Sa 13:37 But Absalom fled and went to Talmai the son of Ammihud, king of Geshur. And David mourned for
his son day after day.
2Sa 13:38 So Absalom fled and went to Geshur, and was there three years.
2Sa 13:39 And the spirit of the king longed to go out to Absalom, because he was comforted about Amnon,
since he was dead.
2Sa 14:1 Now Joab the son of Zeruiah knew that the king's heart went out to Absalom.
2Sa 14:2 And Joab sent to Tekoa and brought from there a wise woman and said to her, "Pretend to be a
mourner and put on mourning garments. Do not anoint yourself with oil, but behave like a woman who has been
mourning many days for the dead.
2Sa 14:3 Go to the king and speak thus to him." So Joab put the words in her mouth.
2Sa 14:4 When the woman of Tekoa came to the king, she fell on her face to the ground and paid homage and
said, "Save me, O king."
2Sa 14:5 And the king said to her, "What is your trouble?" She answered, "Alas, I am a widow; my husband is
dead.
2Sa 14:6 And your servant had two sons, and they quarreled with one another in the field. There was no one to
separate them, and one struck the other and killed him.
2Sa 14:7 And now the whole clan has risen against your servant, and they say, 'Give up the man who struck his
brother, that we may put him to death for the life of his brother whom he killed.' And so they would destroy the
heir also. Thus they would quench my coal that is left and leave to my husband neither name nor remnant on the
face of the earth."
2Sa 14:8 Then the king said to the woman, "Go to your house, and I will give orders concerning you."
2Sa 14:9 And the woman of Tekoa said to the king, "On me be the guilt, my lord the king, and on my father's
house; let the king and his throne be guiltless."
2Sa 14:10 The king said, "If anyone says anything to you, bring him to me, and he shall never touch you again."
2Sa 14:11 Then she said, "Please let the king invoke the LORD your God, that the avenger of blood kill no
more, and my son be not destroyed." He said, "As the LORD lives, not one hair of your son shall fall to the
ground."
2Sa 14:12 Then the woman said, "Please let your servant speak a word to my lord the king." He said, "Speak."
2Sa 14:13 And the woman said, "Why then have you planned such a thing against the people of God? For in
giving this decision the king convicts himself, inasmuch as the king does not bring his banished one home again.
2Sa 14:14 We must all die; we are like water spilled on the ground, which cannot be gathered up again. But
God will not take away life, and he devises means so that the banished one will not remain an outcast.
2Sa 14:15 Now I have come to say this to my lord the king because the people have made me afraid, and your
servant thought, 'I will speak to the king; it may be that the king will perform the request of his servant.
2Sa 14:16 For the king will hear and deliver his servant from the hand of the man who would destroy me and my
son together from the heritage of God.'
2Sa 14:17 And your servant thought, 'The word of my lord the king will set me at rest,' for my lord the king is like
the angel of God to discern good and evil. The LORD your God be with you!"
2Sa 14:18 Then the king answered the woman, "Do not hide from me anything I ask you." And the woman said,
"Let my lord the king speak."
2Sa 14:19 The king said, "Is the hand of Joab with you in all this?" The woman answered and said, "As surely
as you live, my lord the king, one cannot turn to the right hand or to the left from anything that my lord the king
has said. It was your servant Joab who commanded me; it was he who put all these words in the mouth of your
servant.2Sa 14:20 In order to change the course of things your servant Joab did this. But my lord has wisdom like the
wisdom of the angel of God to know all things that are on the earth."
2Sa 14:21 Then the king said to Joab, "Behold now, I grant this; go, bring back the young man Absalom."
2Sa 14:22 And Joab fell on his face to the ground and paid homage and blessed the king. And Joab said,
"Today your servant knows that I have found favor in your sight, my lord the king, in that the king has granted the
request of his servant."
2Sa 14:23 So Joab arose and went to Geshur and brought Absalom to Jerusalem.
2Sa 14:24 And the king said, "Let him dwell apart in his own house; he is not to come into my presence." So
Absalom lived apart in his own house and did not come into the king's presence.
2Sa 14:25 Now in all Israel there was no one so much to be praised for his handsome appearance as Absalom.
From the sole of his foot to the crown of his head there was no blemish in him.
2Sa 14:26 And when he cut the hair of his head (for at the end of every year he used to cut it; when it was
heavy on him, he cut it), he weighed the hair of his head, two hundred shekels by the king's weight.
2Sa 14:27 There were born to Absalom three sons, and one daughter whose name was Tamar. She was a
beautiful woman.
2Sa 14:28 So Absalom lived two full years in Jerusalem, without coming into the king's presence.
2Sa 14:29 Then Absalom sent for Joab, to send him to the king, but Joab would not come to him. And he sent a
second time, but Joab would not come.
2Sa 14:30 Then he said to his servants, "See, Joab's field is next to mine, and he has barley there; go and set it
on fire." So Absalom's servants set the field on fire.
2Sa 14:31 Then Joab arose and went to Absalom at his house and said to him, "Why have your servants set my
field on fire?"
2Sa 14:32 Absalom answered Joab, "Behold, I sent word to you, 'Come here, that I may send you to the king, to
ask, "Why have I come from Geshur? It would be better for me to be there still." Now therefore let me go into the
presence of the king, and if there is guilt in me, let him put me to death.'"
2Sa 14:33 Then Joab went to the king and told him, and he summoned Absalom. So he came to the king and
bowed himself on his face to the ground before the king, and the king kissed Absalom.
2Sa 15:1 After this Absalom got himself a chariot and horses, and fifty men to run before him.
2Sa 15:2 And Absalom used to rise early and stand beside the way of the gate. And when any man had a
dispute to come before the king for judgment, Absalom would call to him and say, "From what city are you?" And
when he said, "Your servant is of such and such a tribe in Israel,"
2Sa 15:3 Absalom would say to him, "See, your claims are good and right, but there is no man designated by
the king to hear you."
2Sa 15:4 Then Absalom would say, "Oh that I were judge in the land! Then every man with a dispute or cause
might come to me, and I would give him justice."
2Sa 15:5 And whenever a man came near to pay homage to him, he would put out his hand and take hold of
him and kiss him.
2Sa 15:6 Thus Absalom did to all of Israel who came to the king for judgment. So Absalom stole the hearts of
the men of Israel.
2Sa 15:7 And at the end of four years Absalom said to the king, "Please let me go and pay my vow, which I
have vowed to the LORD, in Hebron.
2Sa 15:8 For your servant vowed a vow while I lived at Geshur in Aram, saying, 'If the LORD will indeed bring
me back to Jerusalem, then I will offer worship to the LORD.'"
2Sa 15:9 The king said to him, "Go in peace." So he arose and went to Hebron.
2Sa 15:10 But Absalom sent secret messengers throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, "As soon as you hear
the sound of the trumpet, then say, 'Absalom is king at Hebron!'"
2Sa 15:11 With Absalom went two hundred men from Jerusalem who were invited guests, and they went in their
innocence and knew nothing.
2Sa 15:12 And while Absalom was offering the sacrifices, he sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, David's counselor,
from his city Giloh. And the conspiracy grew strong, and the people with Absalom kept increasing.
2Sa 15:13 And a messenger came to David, saying, "The hearts of the men of Israel have gone after Absalom."
2Sa 15:14 Then David said to all his servants who were with him at Jerusalem, "Arise, and let us flee, or else
there will be no escape for us from Absalom. Go quickly, lest he overtake us quickly and bring down ruin on us
and strike the city with the edge of the sword."
2Sa 15:15 And the king's servants said to the king, "Behold, your servants are ready to do whatever my lord the
king decides."
2Sa 15:16 So the king went out, and all his household after him. And the king left ten concubines to keep the
house.
2Sa 15:17 And the king went out, and all the people after him. And they halted at the last house.2Sa 15:18 And all his servants passed by him, and all the Cherethites, and all the Pelethites, and all the six
hundred Gittites who had followed him from Gath, passed on before the king.
2Sa 15:19 Then the king said to Ittai the Gittite, "Why do you also go with us? Go back and stay with the king,
for you are a foreigner and also an exile from your home.
2Sa 15:20 You came only yesterday, and shall I today make you wander about with us, since I go I know not
where? Go back and take your brothers with you, and may the LORD show steadfast love and faithfulness to
you."
2Sa 15:21 But Ittai answered the king, "As the LORD lives, and as my lord the king lives, wherever my lord the
king shall be, whether for death or for life, there also will your servant be."
2Sa 15:22 And David said to Ittai, "Go then, pass on." So Ittai the Gittite passed on with all his men and all the
little ones who were with him.
2Sa 15:23 And all the land wept aloud as all the people passed by, and the king crossed the brook Kidron, and
all the people passed on toward the wilderness.
2Sa 15:24 And Abiathar came up, and behold, Zadok came also with all the Levites, bearing the ark of the
covenant of God. And they set down the ark of God until the people had all passed out of the city.
2Sa 15:25 Then the king said to Zadok, "Carry the ark of God back into the city. If I find favor in the eyes of the
LORD, he will bring me back and let me see both it and his dwelling place.
2Sa 15:26 But if he says, 'I have no pleasure in you,' behold, here I am, let him do to me what seems good to
him."
2Sa 15:27 The king also said to Zadok the priest, "Are you not a seer? Go back to the city in peace, with your
two sons, Ahimaaz your son, and Jonathan the son of Abiathar.
2Sa 15:28 See, I will wait at the fords of the wilderness until word comes from you to inform me."
2Sa 15:29 So Zadok and Abiathar carried the ark of God back to Jerusalem, and they remained there.
2Sa 15:30 But David went up the ascent of the Mount of Olives, weeping as he went, barefoot and with his head
covered. And all the people who were with him covered their heads, and they went up, weeping as they went.
2Sa 15:31 And it was told David, "Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom." And David said, "O
LORD, please turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness."
2Sa 15:32 While David was coming to the summit, where God was worshiped, behold, Hushai the Archite came
to meet him with his coat torn and dirt on his head.
2Sa 15:33 David said to him, "If you go on with me, you will be a burden to me.
2Sa 15:34 But if you return to the city and say to Absalom, 'I will be your servant, O king; as I have been your
father's servant in time past, so now I will be your servant,' then you will defeat for me the counsel of Ahithophel.
2Sa 15:35 Are not Zadok and Abiathar the priests with you there? So whatever you hear from the king's house,
tell it to Zadok and Abiathar the priests.
2Sa 15:36 Behold, their two sons are with them there, Ahimaaz, Zadok's son, and Jonathan, Abiathar's son, and
by them you shall send to me everything you hear."
2Sa 15:37 So Hushai, David's friend, came into the city, just as Absalom was entering Jerusalem.
2Sa 16:1 When David had passed a little beyond the summit, Ziba the servant of Mephibosheth met him, with a
couple of donkeys saddled, bearing two hundred loaves of bread, a hundred bunches of raisins, a hundred of
summer fruits, and a skin of wine.
2Sa 16:2 And the king said to Ziba, "Why have you brought these?" Ziba answered, "The donkeys are for the
king's household to ride on, the bread and summer fruit for the young men to eat, and the wine for those who
faint in the wilderness to drink."
2Sa 16:3 And the king said, "And where is your master's son?" Ziba said to the king, "Behold, he remains in
Jerusalem, for he said, 'Today the house of Israel will give me back the kingdom of my father.'"
2Sa 16:4 Then the king said to Ziba, "Behold, all that belonged to Mephibosheth is now yours." And Ziba said, "I
pay homage; let me ever find favor in your sight, my lord the king."
2Sa 16:5 When King David came to Bahurim, there came out a man of the family of the house of Saul, whose
name was Shimei, the son of Gera, and as he came he cursed continually.
2Sa 16:6 And he threw stones at David and at all the servants of King David, and all the people and all the
mighty men were on his right hand and on his left.
2Sa 16:7 And Shimei said as he cursed, "Get out, get out, you man of blood, you worthless man!
2Sa 16:8 The LORD has avenged on you all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose place you have reigned,
and the LORD has given the kingdom into the hand of your son Absalom. See, your evil is on you, for you are a
man of blood."
2Sa 16:9 Then Abishai the son of Zeruiah said to the king, "Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king?
Let me go over and take off his head."
2Sa 16:10 But the king said, "What have I to do with you, you sons of Zeruiah? If he is cursing because the
LORD has said to him, 'Curse David,' who then shall say, 'Why have you done so?'"2Sa 16:11 And David said to Abishai and to all his servants, "Behold, my own son seeks my life; how much
more now may this Benjaminite! Leave him alone, and let him curse, for the LORD has told him to.
2Sa 16:12 It may be that the LORD will look on the wrong done to me, and that the LORD will repay me with
good for his cursing today."
2Sa 16:13 So David and his men went on the road, while Shimei went along on the hillside opposite him and
cursed as he went and threw stones at him and flung dust.
2Sa 16:14 And the king, and all the people who were with him, arrived weary at the Jordan. And there he
refreshed himself.
2Sa 16:15 Now Absalom and all the people, the men of Israel, came to Jerusalem, and Ahithophel with him.
2Sa 16:16 And when Hushai the Archite, David's friend, came to Absalom, Hushai said to Absalom, "Long live
the king! Long live the king!"
2Sa 16:17 And Absalom said to Hushai, "Is this your loyalty to your friend? Why did you not go with your
friend?"
2Sa 16:18 And Hushai said to Absalom, "No, for whom the LORD and this people and all the men of Israel have
chosen, his I will be, and with him I will remain.
2Sa 16:19 And again, whom should I serve? Should it not be his son? As I have served your father, so I will
serve you."
2Sa 16:20 Then Absalom said to Ahithophel, "Give your counsel. What shall we do?"
2Sa 16:21 Ahithophel said to Absalom, "Go in to your father's concubines, whom he has left to keep the house,
and all Israel will hear that you have made yourself a stench to your father, and the hands of all who are with you
will be strengthened."
2Sa 16:22 So they pitched a tent for Absalom on the roof. And Absalom went in to his father's concubines in the
sight of all Israel.
2Sa 16:23 Now in those days the counsel that Ahithophel gave was as if one consulted the word of God; so was
all the counsel of Ahithophel esteemed, both by David and by Absalom.
2Sa 17:1 Moreover, Ahithophel said to Absalom, "Let me choose twelve thousand men, and I will arise and
pursue David tonight.
2Sa 17:2 I will come upon him while he is weary and discouraged and throw him into a panic, and all the people
who are with him will flee. I will strike down only the king,
2Sa 17:3 and I will bring all the people back to you as a bride comes home to her husband. You seek the life of
only one man, and all the people will be at peace."
2Sa 17:4 And the advice seemed right in the eyes of Absalom and all the el ders of Israel.
2Sa 17:5 Then Absalom said, "Call Hushai the Archite also, and let us hear what he has to say."
2Sa 17:6 And when Hushai came to Absalom, Absalom said to him, "Thus has Ahithophel spoken; shall we do
as he says? If not, you speak."
2Sa 17:7 Then Hushai said to Absalom, "This time the counsel that Ahithophel has given is not good."
2Sa 17:8 Hushai said, "You know that your father and his men are mighty men, and that they are enraged, like
a bear robbed of her cubs in the field. Besides, your father is expert in war; he will not spend the night with the
people.
2Sa 17:9 Behold, even now he has hidden himself in one of the pits or in some other place. And as soon as
some of the people fall at the first attack, whoever hears it will say, 'There has been a slaughter among the
people who follow Absalom.'
2Sa 17:10 Then even the valiant man, whose heart is like the heart of a lion, will utterly melt with fear, for all
Israel knows that your father is a mighty man, and that those who are with him are valiant men.
2Sa 17:11 But my counsel is that all Israel be gathered to you, from Dan to Beersheba, as the sand by the sea
for multitude, and that you go to battle in person.
2Sa 17:12 So we shall come upon him in some place where he is to be found, and we shall light upon him as
the dew falls on the ground, and of him and all the men with him not one will be left.
2Sa 17:13 If he withdraws into a city, then all Israel will bring ropes to that city, and we shall drag it into the
valley, until not even a pebble is to be found there."
2Sa 17:14 And Absalom and all the men of Israel said, "The counsel of Hushai the Archite is better than the
counsel of Ahithophel." For the LORD had ordained to defeat the good counsel of Ahithophel, so that the LORD
might bring harm upon Absalom.
2Sa 17:15 Then Hushai said to Zadok and Abiathar the priests, "Thus and so did Ahithophel counsel Absalom
and the elders of Israel, and thus and so have I counseled.
2Sa 17:16 Now therefore send quickly and tell David, 'Do not stay tonight at the fords of the wilderness, but by
all means pass over, lest the king and all the people who are with him be swallowed up.'"
2Sa 17:17 Now Jonathan and Ahimaaz were waiting at En-rogel. A female servant was to go and tell them, and
they were to go and tell King David, for they were not to be seen entering the city.2Sa 17:18 But a young man saw them and told Absalom. So both of them went away quickly and came to the
house of a man at Bahurim, who had a well in his courtyard. And they went down into it.
2Sa 17:19 And the woman took and spread a covering over the well's mouth and scattered grain on it, and
nothing was known of it.
2Sa 17:20 When Absalom's servants came to the woman at the house, they said, "Where are Ahimaaz and
Jonathan?" And the woman said to them, "They have gone over the brook of water." And when they had sought
and could not find them, they returned to Jerusalem.
2Sa 17:21 After they had gone, the men came up out of the well, and went and told King David. They said to
David, "Arise, and go quickly over the water, for thus and so has Ahithophel counseled against you."
2Sa 17:22 Then David arose, and all the people who were with him, and they crossed the Jordan. By daybreak
not one was left who had not crossed the Jordan.
2Sa 17:23 When Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed, he saddled his donkey and went off home to
his own city. He set his house in order and hanged himself, and he died and was buried in the tomb of his father.
2Sa 17:24 Then David came to Mahanaim. And Absalom crossed the Jordan with all the men of Israel.
2Sa 17:25 Now Absalom had set Amasa over the army instead of Joab. Amasa was the son of a man named
Ithra the Ishmaelite, who had married Abigal the daughter of Nahash, sister of Zeruiah, Joab's mother.
2Sa 17:26 And Israel and Absalom encamped in the land of Gilead.
2Sa 17:27 When David came to Mahanaim, Shobi the son of Nahash from Rabbah of the Ammonites, and
Machir the son of Ammiel from Lo-debar, and Barzillai the Gileadite from Rogelim,
2Sa 17:28 brought beds, basins, and earthen vessels, wheat, barley, flour, parched grain, beans and lentils,
2Sa 17:29 honey and curds and sheep and cheese from the herd, for David and the people with him to eat, for
they said, "The people are hungry and weary and thirsty in the wilderness."
2Sa 18:1 Then David mustered the men who were with him and set over them commanders of thousands and
commanders of hundreds.
2Sa 18:2 And David sent out the army, one third under the command of Joab, one third under the command of
Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, and one third under the command of Ittai the Gittite. And the king said
to the men, "I myself will also go out with you."
2Sa 18:3 But the men said, "You shall not go out. For if we flee, they will not care about us. If half of us die, they
will not care about us. But you are worth ten thousand of us. Therefore it is better that you send us help from the
city."
2Sa 18:4 The king said to them, "Whatever seems best to you I will do." So the king stood at the side of the
gate, while all the army marched out by hundreds and by thousands.
2Sa 18:5 And the king ordered Joab and Abishai and Ittai, "Deal gently for my sake with the young man
Absalom." And all the people heard when the king gave orders to all the commanders about Absalom.
2Sa 18:6 So the army went out into the field against Israel, and the battle was fought in the forest of Ephraim.
2Sa 18:7 And the men of Israel were defeated there by the servants of David, and the loss there was great on
that day, twenty thousand men.
2Sa 18:8 The battle spread over the face of all the country, and the forest devoured more people that day than
the sword.
2Sa 18:9 And Absalom happened to meet the servants of David. Absalom was riding on his mule, and the mule
went under the thick branches of a great terebinth, and his head caught fast in the oak, and he was suspended
between heaven and earth, while the mule that was under him went on.
2Sa 18:10 And a certain man saw it and told Joab, "Behold, I saw Absalom hanging in an oak."
2Sa 18:11 Joab said to the man who told him, "What, you saw him! Why then did you not strike him there to the
ground? I would have been glad to give you ten pieces of silver and a belt."
2Sa 18:12 But the man said to Joab, "Even if I felt in my hand the weight of a thousand pieces of silver, I would
not reach out my hand against the king's son, for in our hearing the king commanded you and Abishai and Ittai,
'For my sake protect the young man Absalom.'
2Sa 18:13 On the other hand, if I had dealt treacherously against his life (and there is nothing hidden from the
king), then you yourself would have stood aloof."
2Sa 18:14 Joab said, "I will not waste time like this with you." And he took three javelins in his hand and thrust
them into the heart of Absalom while he was still alive in the oak.
2Sa 18:15 And ten young men, Joab's armor-bearers, surrounded Absalom and struck him and killed him.
2Sa 18:16 Then Joab blew the trumpet, and the troops came back from pursuing Israel, for Joab restrained
them.
2Sa 18:17 And they took Absalom and threw him into a great pit in the forest and raised over him a very great
heap of stones. And all Israel fled every one to his own home.
2Sa 18:18 Now Absalom in his lifetime had taken and set up for himself the pillar that is in the King's Valley, for
he said, "I have no son to keep my name in remembrance." He called the pillar after his own name, and it iscalled Absalom's monument to this day.
2Sa 18:19 Then Ahimaaz the son of Zadok said, "Let me run and carry news to the king that the LORD has
delivered him from the hand of his enemies."
2Sa 18:20 And Joab said to him, "You are not to carry news today. You may carry news another day, but today
you shall carry no news, because the king's son is dead."
2Sa 18:21 Then Joab said to the Cushite, "Go, tell the king what you have seen." The Cushite bowed before
Joab, and ran.
2Sa 18:22 Then Ahimaaz the son of Zadok said again to Joab, "Come what may, let me also run after the
Cushite." And Joab said, "Why will you run, my son, seeing that you will have no reward for the news?"
2Sa 18:23 "Come what may," he said, "I will run." So he said to him, "Run." Then Ahimaaz ran by the way of the
plain, and outran the Cushite.
2Sa 18:24 Now David was sitting between the two gates, and the watchman went up to the roof of the gate by
the wall, and when he lifted up his eyes and looked, he saw a man running alone.
2Sa 18:25 The watchman called out and told the king. And the king said, "If he is alone, there is news in his
mouth." And he drew nearer and nearer.
2Sa 18:26 The watchman saw another man running. And the watchman called to the gate and said, "See,
another man running alone!" The king said, "He also brings news."
2Sa 18:27 The watchman said, "I think the running of the first is like the running of Ahimaaz the son of Zadok."
And the king said, "He is a good man and comes with good news."
2Sa 18:28 Then Ahimaaz cried out to the king, "All is well." And he bowed before the king with his face to the
earth and said, "Blessed be the LORD your God, who has delivered up the men who raised their hand against
my lord the king."
2Sa 18:29 And the king said, "Is it well with the young man Absalom?" Ahima-az answered, "When Joab sent
the king's servant, your servant, I saw a great commotion, but I do not know what it was."
2Sa 18:30 And the king said, "Turn aside and stand here." So he turned aside and stood still.
2Sa 18:31 And behold, the Cushite came, and the Cushite said, "Good news for my lord the king! For the LORD
has delivered you this day from the hand of all who rose up against you."
2Sa 18:32 The king said to the Cushite, "Is it well with the young man Absalom?" And the Cushite answered,
"May the enemies of my lord the king and all who rise up against you for evil be like that young man."
2Sa 18:33 And the king was deeply moved and went up to the chamber over the gate and wept. And as he
went, he said, "O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom! Would I had died instead of you, O Absalom, my
son, my son!"
2Sa 19:1 It was told Joab, "Behold, the king is weeping and mourning for Absalom."
2Sa 19:2 So the victory that day was turned into mourning for all the people, for the people heard that day, "The
king is grieving for his son."
2Sa 19:3 And the people stole into the city that day as people steal in who are ashamed when they flee in
battle.
2Sa 19:4 The king covered his face, and the king cried with a loud voice, "O my son Absalom, O Absalom, my
son, my son!"
2Sa 19:5 Then Joab came into the house to the king and said, "You have today covered with shame the faces
of all your servants, who have this day saved your life and the lives of your sons and your daughters and the
lives of your wives and your concubines,
2Sa 19:6 because you love those who hate you and hate those who love you. For you have made it clear today
that commanders and servants are nothing to you, for today I know that if Absalom were alive and all of us were
dead today, then you would be pleased.
2Sa 19:7 Now therefore arise, go out and speak kindly to your servants, for I swear by the LORD, if you do not
go, not a man will stay with you this night, and this will be worse for you than all the evil that has come upon you
from your youth until now."
2Sa 19:8 Then the king arose and took his seat in the gate. And the people were all told, "Behold, the king is
sitting in the gate." And all the people came before the king. Now Israel had fled every man to his own home.
2Sa 19:9 And all the people were arguing throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, "The king delivered us from
the hand of our enemies and saved us from the hand of the Philistines, and now he has fled out of the land from
Absalom.
2Sa 19:10 But Absalom, whom we anointed over us, is dead in battle. Now therefore why do you say nothing
about bringing the king back?"
2Sa 19:11 And King David sent this message to Zadok and Abiathar the priests, "Say to the elders of Judah,
'Why should you be the last to bring the king back to his house, when the word of all Israel has come to the
king?
2Sa 19:12 You are my brothers; you are my bone and my flesh. Why then should you be the last to bring backthe king?'
2Sa 19:13 And say to Amasa, 'Are you not my bone and my flesh? God do so to me and more also, if you are
not commander of my army from now on in place of Joab.'"
2Sa 19:14 And he swayed the heart of all the men of Judah as one man, so that they sent word to the king,
"Return, both you and all your servants."
2Sa 19:15 So the king came back to the Jordan, and Judah came to Gilgal to meet the king and to bring the
king over the Jordan.
2Sa 19:16 And Shimei the son of Gera, the Benjaminite, from Bahurim, hurried to come down with the men of
Judah to meet King David.
2Sa 19:17 And with him were a thousand men from Benjamin. And Ziba the servant of the house of Saul, with
his fifteen sons and his twenty servants, rushed down to the Jordan before the king,
2Sa 19:18 and they crossed the ford to bring over the king's household and to do his pleasure. And Shimei the
son of Gera fell down before the king, as he was about to cross the Jordan,
2Sa 19:19 and said to the king, "Let not my lord hold me guilty or remember how your servant did wrong on the
day my lord the king left Jerusalem. Do not let the king take it to heart.
2Sa 19:20 For your servant knows that I have sinned. Therefore, behold, I have come this day, the first of all the
house of Joseph to come down to meet my lord the king."
2Sa 19:21 Abishai the son of Zeruiah answered, "Shall not Shimei be put to death for this, because he cursed
the LORD's anointed?"
2Sa 19:22 But David said, "What have I to do with you, you sons of Zeruiah, that you should this day be as an
adversary to me? Shall anyone be put to death in Israel this day? For do I not know that I am this day king over
Israel?"
2Sa 19:23 And the king said to Shimei, "You shall not die." And the king gave him his oath.
2Sa 19:24 And Mephibosheth the son of Saul came down to meet the king. He had neither taken care of his feet
nor trimmed his beard nor washed his clothes, from the day the king departed until the day he came back in
safety.
2Sa 19:25 And when he came to Jerusalem to meet the king, the king said to him, "Why did you not go with me,
Mephibosheth?"
2Sa 19:26 He answered, "My lord, O king, my servant deceived me, for your servant said to him, 'I will saddle a
donkey for myself, that I may ride on it and go with the king.' For your servant is lame.
2Sa 19:27 He has slandered your servant to my lord the king. But my lord the king is like the angel of God; do
therefore what seems good to you.
2Sa 19:28 For all my father's house were but men doomed to death before my lord the king, but you set your
servant among those who eat at your table. What further right have I, then, to cry to the king?"
2Sa 19:29 And the king said to him, "Why speak any more of your affairs? I have decided: you and Ziba shall
divide the land."
2Sa 19:30 And Mephibosheth said to the king, "Oh, let him take it all, since my lord the king has come safely
home."
2Sa 19:31 Now Barzillai the Gileadite had come down from Rogelim, and he went on with the king to the
Jordan, to escort him over the Jordan.
2Sa 19:32 Barzillai was a very aged man, eighty years old. He had provided the king with food while he stayed
at Mahanaim, for he was a very wealthy man.
2Sa 19:33 And the king said to Barzillai, "Come over with me, and I will provide for you with me in Jerusalem."
2Sa 19:34 But Barzillai said to the king, "How many years have I still to live, that I should go up with the king to
Jerusalem?
2Sa 19:35 I am this day eighty years old. Can I discern what is pleasant and what is not? Can your servant taste
what he eats or what he drinks? Can I still listen to the voice of singing men and singing women? Why then
should your servant be an added burden to my lord the king?
2Sa 19:36 Your servant will go a little way over the Jordan with the king. Why should the king repay me with
such a reward?
2Sa 19:37 Please let your servant return, that I may die in my own city near the grave of my father and my
mother. But here is your servant Chimham. Let him go over with my lord the king, and do for him whatever
seems good to you."
2Sa 19:38 And the king answered, "Chimham shall go over with me, and I will do for him whatever seems good
to you, and all that you desire of me I will do for you."
2Sa 19:39 Then all the people went over the Jordan, and the king went over. And the king kissed Barzillai and
blessed him, and he returned to his own home.
2Sa 19:40 The king went on to Gilgal, and Chimham went on with him. All the people of Judah, and also half the
people of Israel, brought the king on his way.2Sa 19:41 Then all the men of Israel came to the king and said to the king, "Why have our brothers the men of
Judah stolen you away and brought the king and his household over the Jordan, and all David's men with him?"
2Sa 19:42 All the men of Judah answered the men of Israel, "Because the king is our close relative. Why then
are you angry over this matter? Have we eaten at all at the king's expense? Or has he given us any gift?"
2Sa 19:43 And the men of Israel answered the men of Judah, "We have ten shares in the king, and in David
also we have more than you. Why then did you despise us? Were we not the first to speak of bringing back our
king?" But the words of the men of Judah were fiercer than the words of the men of Israel.
2Sa 20:1 Now there happened to be there a worthless man, whose name was Sheba, the son of Bichri, a
Benjaminite. And he blew the trumpet and said, "We have no portion in David, and we have no inheritance in the
son of Jesse; every man to his tents, O Israel!"
2Sa 20:2 So all the men of Israel withdrew from David and followed Sheba the son of Bichri. But the men of
Judah followed their king steadfastly from the Jordan to Jerusalem.
2Sa 20:3 And David came to his house at Jerusalem. And the king took the ten concubines whom he had left to
care for the house and put them in a house under guard and provided for them, but did not go in to them. So
they were shut up until the day of their death, living as if in widowhood.
2Sa 20:4 Then the king said to Amasa, "Call the men of Judah together to me within three days, and be here
yourself."
2Sa 20:5 So Amasa went to summon Judah, but he delayed beyond the set time that had been appointed him.
2Sa 20:6 And David said to Abishai, "Now Sheba the son of Bichri will do us more harm than Absalom. Take
your lord's servants and pursue him, lest he get himself to fortified cities and escape from us."
2Sa 20:7 And there went out after him Joab's men and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and all the mighty
men. They went out from Jerusalem to pursue Sheba the son of Bichri.
2Sa 20:8 When they were at the great stone that is in Gibeon, Amasa came to meet them. Now Joab was
wearing a soldier's garment, and over it was a belt with a sword in its sheath fastened on his thigh, and as he
went forward it fell out.
2Sa 20:9 And Joab said to Amasa, "Is it well with you, my brother?" And Joab took Amasa by the beard with his
right hand to kiss him.
2Sa 20:10 But Amasa did not observe the sword that was in Joab's hand. So Joab struck him with it in the
stomach and spilled his entrails to the ground without striking a second blow, and he died. Then Joab and
Abishai his brother pursued Sheba the son of Bichri.
2Sa 20:11 And one of Joab's young men took his stand by Amasa and said, "Whoever favors Joab, and
whoever is for David, let him follow Joab."
2Sa 20:12 And Amasa lay wallowing in his blood in the highway. And anyone who came by, seeing him,
stopped. And when the man saw that all the people stopped, he carried Amasa out of the highway into the field
and threw a garment over him.
2Sa 20:13 When he was taken out of the highway, all the people went on after Joab to pursue Sheba the son of
Bichri.
2Sa 20:14 And Sheba passed through all the tribes of Israel to Abel of Beth-maacah, and all the Bichrites
assembled and followed him in.
2Sa 20:15 And all the men who were with Joab came and besieged him in Abel of Beth-maacah. They cast up a
mound against the city, and it stood against the rampart, and they were battering the wall to throw it down.
2Sa 20:16 Then a wise woman called from the city, "Listen! Listen! Tell Joab, 'Come here, that I may speak to
you.'"
2Sa 20:17 And he came near her, and the woman said, "Are you Joab?" He answered, "I am." Then she said to
him, "Listen to the words of your servant." And he answered, "I am listening."
2Sa 20:18 Then she said, "They used to say in former times, 'Let them but ask counsel at Abel,' and so they
settled a matter.
2Sa 20:19 I am one of those who are peaceable and faithful in Israel. You seek to destroy a city that is a mother
in Israel. Why will you swallow up the heritage of the LORD?"
2Sa 20:20 Joab answered, "Far be it from me, far be it, that I should swallow up or destroy!
2Sa 20:21 That is not true. But a man of the hill country of Ephraim, called Sheba the son of Bichri, has lifted up
his hand against King David. Give up him alone, and I will withdraw from the city." And the woman said to Joab,
"Behold, his head shall be thrown to you over the wall."
2Sa 20:22 Then the woman went to all the people in her wisdom. And they cut off the head of Sheba the son of
Bichri and threw it out to Joab. So he blew the trumpet, and they dispersed from the city, every man to his home.
And Joab returned to Jerusalem to the king.
2Sa 20:23 Now Joab was in command of all the army of Israel; and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was in
command of the Cherethites and the Pelethites;
2Sa 20:24 and Adoram was in charge of the forced labor; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was the recorder;2Sa 20:25 and Sheva was secretary; and Zadok and Abiathar were priests;
2Sa 20:26 and Ira the Jairite was also David's priest.
2Sa 21:1 Now there was a famine in the days of David for three years, year after year. And David sought the
face of the LORD. And the LORD said, "There is bloodguilt on Saul and on his house, because he put the
Gibeonites to death."
2Sa 21:2 So the king called the Gibeonites and spoke to them. Now the Gibeonites were not of the people of
Israel but of the remnant of the Amorites. Although the people of Israel had sworn to spare them, Saul had
sought to strike them down in his zeal for the people of Israel and Judah.
2Sa 21:3 And David said to the Gibeonites, "What shall I do for you? And how shall I make atonement, that you
may bless the heritage of the LORD?"
2Sa 21:4 The Gibeonites said to him, "It is not a matter of silver or gold between us and Saul or his house;
neither is it for us to put any man to death in Israel." And he said, "What do you say that I shall do for you?"
2Sa 21:5 They said to the king, "The man who consumed us and planned to destroy us, so that we should have
no place in all the territory of Israel,
2Sa 21:6 let seven of his sons be given to us, so that we may hang them before the LORD at Gibeah of Saul,
the chosen of the LORD." And the king said, "I will give them."
2Sa 21:7 But the king spared Mephibosheth, the son of Saul's son Jonathan, because of the oath of the LORD
that was between them, between David and Jonathan the son of Saul.
2Sa 21:8 The king took the two sons of Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, whom she bore to Saul, Armoni and
Mephibosheth; and the five sons of Merab the daughter of Saul, whom she bore to Adriel the son of Barzillai the
Meholathite;
2Sa 21:9 and he gave them into the hands of the Gibeonites, and they hanged them on the mountain before the
LORD, and the seven of them perished together. They were put to death in the first days of harvest, at the
beginning of barley harvest.
2Sa 21:10 Then Rizpah the daughter of Aiah took sackcloth and spread it for herself on the rock, from the
beginning of harvest until rain fell upon them from the heavens. And she did not allow the birds of the air to come
upon them by day, or the beasts of the field by night.
2Sa 21:11 When David was told what Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, the concubine of Saul, had done,
2Sa 21:12 David went and took the bones of Saul and the bones of his son Jonathan from the men of Jabeshgilead, who had stolen them from the public square of Beth-shan, where the Philistines had hanged them, on the
day the Philistines killed Saul on Gilboa.
2Sa 21:13 And he brought up from there the bones of Saul and the bones of his son Jonathan; and they
gathered the bones of those who were hanged.
2Sa 21:14 And they buried the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan in the land of Benjamin in Zela, in the tomb
of Kish his father. And they did all that the king commanded. And after that God responded to the plea for the
land.
2Sa 21:15 There was war again between the Philistines and Israel, and David went down together with his
servants, and they fought against the Philistines. And David grew weary.
2Sa 21:16 And Ishbi-benob, one of the descendants of the giants, whose spear weighed three hundred shekels
of bronze, and who was armed with a new sword, thought to kill David.
2Sa 21:17 But Abishai the son of Zeruiah came to his aid and attacked the Philistine and killed him. Then
David's men swore to him, "You shall no longer go out with us to battle, lest you quench the lamp of Israel."
2Sa 21:18 After this there was again war with the Philistines at Gob. Then Sibbecai the Hushathite struck down
Saph, who was one of the descendants of the giants.
2Sa 21:19 And there was again war with the Philistines at Gob, and Elhanan the son of Jaare-oregim, the
Bethlehemite, struck down Goliath the Gittite, the shaft of whose spear was like a weaver's beam.
2Sa 21:20 And there was again war at Gath, where there was a man of great stature, who had six fingers on
each hand, and six toes on each foot, twenty-four in number, and he also was descended from the giants.
2Sa 21:21 And when he taunted Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimei, David's brother, struck him down.
2Sa 21:22 These four were descended from the giants in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and by the
hand of his servants.
2Sa 22:1 And David spoke to the LORD the words of this song on the day when the LORD delivered him from
the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul.
2Sa 22:2 He said, "The LORD is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer,
2Sa 22:3 my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold and
my refuge, my savior; you save me from violence.
2Sa 22:4 I call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies.
2Sa 22:5 "For the waves of death encompassed me, the torrents of destruction assailed me;
2Sa 22:6 the cords of Sheol entangled me; the snares of death confronted me.2Sa 22:7 "In my distress I called upon the LORD; to my God I called. From his temple he heard my voice, and
my cry came to his ears.
2Sa 22:8 "Then the earth reeled and rocked; the foundations of the heavens trembled and quaked, because he
was angry.
2Sa 22:9 Smoke went up from his nostrils, and devouring fire from his mouth; glowing coals flamed forth from
him.
2Sa 22:10 He bowed the heavens and came down; thick darkness was under his feet.
2Sa 22:11 He rode on a cherub and flew; he was seen on the wings of the wind.
2Sa 22:12 He made darkness around him his canopy, thick clouds, a gathering of water.
2Sa 22:13 Out of the brightness before him coals of fire flamed forth.
2Sa 22:14 The LORD thundered from heaven, and the Most High uttered his voice.
2Sa 22:15 And he sent out arrows and scattered them; lightning, and routed them.
2Sa 22:16 Then the channels of the sea were seen; the foundations of the world were laid bare, at the rebuke of
the LORD, at the blast of the breath of his nostrils.
2Sa 22:17 "He sent from on high, he took me; he drew me out of many waters.
2Sa 22:18 He rescued me from my strong enemy, from those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me.
2Sa 22:19 They confronted me in the day of my calamity, but the LORD was my support.
2Sa 22:20 He brought me out into a broad place; he rescued me, because he delighted in me.
2Sa 22:21 "The LORD dealt with me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands he
rewarded me.
2Sa 22:22 For I have kept the ways of the LORD and have not wickedly departed from my God.
2Sa 22:23 For all his rules were before me, and from his statutes I did not turn aside.
2Sa 22:24 I was blameless before him, and I kept myself from guilt.
2Sa 22:25 And the LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to my cleanness in his
sight.
2Sa 22:26 "With the merciful you show yourself merciful; with the blameless man you show yourself blameless;
2Sa 22:27 with the purified you deal purely, and with the crooked you make yourself seem tortuous.
2Sa 22:28 You save a humble people, but your eyes are on the haughty to bring them down.
2Sa 22:29 For you are my lamp, O LORD, and my God lightens my darkness.
2Sa 22:30 For by you I can run against a troop, and by my God I can leap over a wall.
2Sa 22:31 This God- his way is perfect; the word of the LORD proves true; he is a shield for all those who take
refuge in him.
2Sa 22:32 "For who is God, but the LORD? And who is a rock, except our God?
2Sa 22:33 This God is my strong refuge and has made my way blameless.
2Sa 22:34 He made my feet like the feet of a deer and set me secure on the heights.
2Sa 22:35 He trains my hands for war, so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze.
2Sa 22:36 You have given me the shield of your salvation, and your gentleness made me great.
2Sa 22:37 You gave a wide place for my steps under me, and my feet did not slip;
2Sa 22:38 I pursued my enemies and destroyed them, and did not turn back until they were consumed.
2Sa 22:39 I consumed them; I thrust them through, so that they did not rise; they fell under my feet.
2Sa 22:40 For you equipped me with strength for the battle; you made those who rise against me sink under
me.
2Sa 22:41 You made my enemies turn their backs to me, those who hated me, and I destroyed them.
2Sa 22:42 They looked, but there was none to save; they cried to the LORD, but he did not answer them.
2Sa 22:43 I beat them fine as the dust of the earth; I crushed them and stamped them down like the mire of the
streets.
2Sa 22:44 "You delivered me from strife with my people; you kept me as the head of the nations; people whom I
had not known served me.
2Sa 22:45 Foreigners came cringing to me; as soon as they heard of me, they obeyed me.
2Sa 22:46 Foreigners lost heart and came trembling out of their fortresses.
2Sa 22:47 "The LORD lives, and blessed be my rock, and exalted be my God, the rock of my salvation,
2Sa 22:48 the God who gave me vengeance and brought down peoples under me,
2Sa 22:49 who brought me out from my enemies; you exalted me above those who rose against me; you
delivered me from men of violence.
2Sa 22:50 "For this I will praise you, O LORD, among the nations, and sing praises to your name.
2Sa 22:51 Great salvation he brings to his king, and shows steadfast love to his anointed, to David and his
offspring forever."
2Sa 23:1 Now these are the last words of David: The oracle of David, the son of Jesse, the oracle of the man
who was raised on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob, the sweet psalmist of Israel:2Sa 23:2 "The Spirit of the LORD speaks by me; his word is on my tongue.
2Sa 23:3 The God of Israel has spoken; the Rock of Israel has said to me: When one rules justly over men,
ruling in the fear of God,
2Sa 23:4 he dawns on them like the morning light, like the sun shining forth on a cloudless morning, like rain
that makes grass to sprout from the earth.
2Sa 23:5 For does not my house stand so with God? For he has made with me an everlasting covenant,
ordered in all things and secure. For will he not cause to prosper all my help and my desire?
2Sa 23:6 But worthless men are all like thorns that are thrown away, for they cannot be taken with the hand;
2Sa 23:7 but the man who touches them arms himself with iron and the shaft of a spear, and they are utterly
consumed with fire."
2Sa 23:8 These are the names of the mighty men whom David had: Josheb-basshebeth a Tahchemonite; he
was chief of the three. He wielded his spear against eight hundred whom he killed at one time.
2Sa 23:9 And next to him among the three mighty men was Eleazar the son of Dodo, son of Ahohi. He was with
David when they defied the Philistines who were gathered there for battle, and the men of Israel withdrew.
2Sa 23:10 He rose and struck down the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand clung to the sword.
And the LORD brought about a great victory that day, and the men returned after him only to strip the slain.
2Sa 23:11 And next to him was Shammah, the son of Agee the Hararite. The Philistines gathered together at
Lehi, where there was a plot of ground full of lentils, and the men fled from the Philistines.
2Sa 23:12 But he took his stand in the midst of the plot and defended it and struck down the Philistines, and the
LORD worked a great victory.
2Sa 23:13 And three of the thirty chief men went down and came about harvest time to David at the cave of
Adullam, when a band of Philistines was encamped in the Valley of Rephaim.
2Sa 23:14 David was then in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was then at Bethlehem.
2Sa 23:15 And David said longingly, "Oh, that someone would give me water to drink from the well of
Bethlehem that is by the gate!"
2Sa 23:16 Then the three mighty men broke through the camp of the Philistines and drew water out of the well
of Bethlehem that was by the gate and carried and brought it to David. But he would not drink of it. He poured it
out to the LORD
2Sa 23:17 and said, "Far be it from me, O LORD, that I should do this. Shall I drink the blood of the men who
went at the risk of their lives?" Therefore he would not drink it. These things the three mighty men did.
2Sa 23:18 Now Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was chief of the thirty. And he wielded his
spear against three hundred men and killed them and won a name beside the three.
2Sa 23:19 He was the most renowned of the thirty and became their commander, but he did not attain to the
three.
2Sa 23:20 And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was a valiant man of Kabzeel, a doer of great deeds. He struck
down two ariels of Moab. He also went down and struck down a lion in a pit on a day when snow had fallen.
2Sa 23:21 And he struck down an Egyptian, a handsome man. The Egyptian had a spear in his hand, but
Benaiah went down to him with a staff and snatched the spear out of the Egyptian's hand and killed him with his
own spear.
2Sa 23:22 These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and won a name beside the three mighty men.
2Sa 23:23 He was renowned among the thirty, but he did not attain to the three. And David set him over his
bodyguard.
2Sa 23:24 Asahel the brother of Joab was one of the thirty; Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem,
2Sa 23:25 Shammah of Harod, Elika of Harod,
2Sa 23:26 Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ikkesh of Tekoa,
2Sa 23:27 Abiezer of Anathoth, Mebunnai the Hushathite,
2Sa 23:28 Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai of Netophah,
2Sa 23:29 Heleb the son of Baanah of Netophah, Ittai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the people of Benjamin,
2Sa 23:30 Benaiah of Pirathon, Hiddai of the brooks of Gaash,
2Sa 23:31 Abi-albon the Arbathite, Azmaveth of Bahurim,
2Sa 23:32 Eliahba the Shaalbonite, the sons of Jashen, Jonathan,
2Sa 23:33 Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Hararite,
2Sa 23:34 Eliphelet the son of Ahasbai of Maacah, Eliam the son of Ahithophel of Gilo,
2Sa 23:35 Hezro of Carmel, Paarai the Arbite,
2Sa 23:36 Igal the son of Nathan of Zobah, Bani the Gadite,
2Sa 23:37 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai of Beeroth, the armor-bearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah,
2Sa 23:38 Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,
2Sa 23:39 Uriah the Hittite: thirty-seven in all.
2Sa 24:1 , Again the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and he incited David against them, saying,"Go, number Israel and Judah."
2Sa 24:2 So the king said to Joab, the commander of the army, who was with him, "Go through all the tribes of
Israel, from Dan to Beersheba, and number the people, that I may know the number of the people."
2Sa 24:3 But Joab said to the king, "May the LORD your God add to the people a hundred times as many as
they are, while the eyes of my lord the king still see it, but why does my lord the king delight in this thing?"
2Sa 24:4 But the king's word prevailed against Joab and the commanders of the army. So Joab and the
commanders of the army went out from the presence of the king to number the people of Israel.
2Sa 24:5 They crossed the Jordan and began from Aroer, and from the city that is in the middle of the valley,
toward Gad and on to Jazer.
2Sa 24:6 Then they came to Gilead, and to Kadesh in the land of the Hittites; and they came to Dan, and from
Dan they went around to Sidon,
2Sa 24:7 and came to the fortress of Tyre and to all the cities of the Hivites and Canaanites; and they went out
to the Negeb of Judah at Beersheba.
2Sa 24:8 So when they had gone through all the land, they came to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and
twenty days.
2Sa 24:9 And Joab gave the sum of the numbering of the people to the king: in Israel there were 800,000
valiant men who drew the sword, and the men of Judah were 500,000.
2Sa 24:10 But David's heart struck him after he had numbered the people. And David said to the LORD, "I have
sinned greatly in what I have done. But now, O LORD, please take away the iniquity of your servant, for I have
done very foolishly."
2Sa 24:11 And when David arose in the morning, the word of the LORD came to the prophet Gad, David's seer,
saying,
2Sa 24:12 "Go and say to David, 'Thus says the LORD, Three things I offer you. Choose one of them, that I
may do it to you.'"
2Sa 24:13 So Gad came to David and told him, and said to him, "Shall three years of famine come to you in
your land? Or will you flee three months before your foes while they pursue you? Or shall there be three days'
pestilence in your land? Now consider, and decide what answer I shall return to him who sent me."
2Sa 24:14 Then David said to Gad, "I am in great distress. Let us fall into the hand of the LORD, for his mercy is
great; but let me not fall into the hand of man."
2Sa 24:15 So the LORD sent a pestilence on Israel from the morning until the appointed time. And there died of
the people from Dan to Beersheba 70,000 men.
2Sa 24:16 And when the angel stretched out his hand toward Jerusalem to destroy it, the LORD relented from
the calamity and said to the angel who was working destruction among the people, "It is enough; now stay your
hand." And the angel of the LORD was by the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite.
2Sa 24:17 Then David spoke to the LORD when he saw the angel who was striking the people, and said,
"Behold, I have sinned, and I have done wickedly. But these sheep, what have they done? Please let your hand
be against me and against my father's house."
2Sa 24:18 And Gad came that day to David and said to him, "Go up, raise an altar to the LORD on the
threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite."
2Sa 24:19 So David went up at Gad's word, as the LORD commanded.
2Sa 24:20 And when Araunah looked down, he saw the king and his servants coming on toward him. And
Araunah went out and paid homage to the king with his face to the ground.
2Sa 24:21 And Araunah said, "Why has my lord the king come to his servant?" David said, "To buy the
threshing floor from you, in order to build an altar to the LORD, that the plague may be averted from the people."
2Sa 24:22 Then Araunah said to David, "Let my lord the king take and offer up what seems good to him. Here
are the oxen for the burnt offering and the threshing sledges and the yokes of the oxen for the wood.
2Sa 24:23 All this, O king, Araunah gives to the king." And Araunah said to the king, "The LORD your God
accept you."
2Sa 24:24 But the king said to Araunah, "No, but I will buy it from you for a price. I will not offer burnt offerings to
the LORD my God that cost me nothing." So David bought the threshing floor and the oxen for fifty shekels of
silver.
2Sa 24:25 And David built there an altar to the LORD and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. So the
LORD responded to the plea for the land, and the plague was averted from Israel.
1Ki 1:1 Now King David was old and advanced in years. And although they covered him with clothes, he could
not get warm.
1Ki 1:2 Therefore his servants said to him, "Let a young woman be sought for my lord the king, and let her wait
on the king and be in his service. Let her lie in your arms, that my lord the king may be warm."
1Ki 1:3 So they sought for a beautiful young woman throughout all the territory of Israel, and found Abishag the
Shunammite, and brought her to the king.1Ki 1:4 The young woman was very beautiful, and she was of service to the king and attended to him, but the
king knew her not.
1Ki 1:5 Now Adonijah the son of Haggith exalted himself, saying, "I will be king." And he prepared for himself
chariots and horsemen, and fifty men to run before him.
1Ki 1:6 His father had never at any time displeased him by asking, "Why have you done thus and so?" He was
also a very handsome man, and he was born next after Absalom.
1Ki 1:7 He conferred with Joab the son of Zeruiah and with Abiathar the priest. And they followed Adonijah and
helped him.
1Ki 1:8 But Zadok the priest and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada and Nathan the prophet and Shimei and Rei and
David's mighty men were not with Adonijah.
1Ki 1:9 Adonijah sacrificed sheep, oxen, and fattened cattle by the Serpent's Stone, which is beside En-rogel,
and he invited all his brothers, the king's sons, and all the royal officials of Judah,
1Ki 1:10 but he did not invite Nathan the prophet or Benaiah or the mighty men or Solomon his brother.
1Ki 1:11 Then Nathan said to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon, "Have you not heard that Adonijah the son of
Haggith has become king and David our lord does not know it?
1Ki 1:12 Now therefore come, let me give you advice, that you may save your own life and the life of your son
Solomon.
1Ki 1:13 Go in at once to King David, and say to him, 'Did you not, my lord the king, swear to your servant,
saying, "Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne"? Why then is Adonijah king?'
1Ki 1:14 Then while you are still speaking with the king, I also will come in after you and confirm your words."
1Ki 1:15 So Bathsheba went to the king in his chamber (now the king was very old, and Abishag the
Shunammite was attending to the king).
1Ki 1:16 Bathsheba bowed and paid homage to the king, and the king said, "What do you desire?"
1Ki 1:17 She said to him, "My lord, you swore to your servant by the LORD your God, saying, 'Solomon your
son shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne.'
1Ki 1:18 And now, behold, Adonijah is king, although you, my lord the king, do not know it.
1Ki 1:19 He has sacrificed oxen, fattened cattle, and sheep in abundance, and has invited all the sons of the
king, Abiathar the priest, and Joab the commander of the army, but Solomon your servant he has not invited.
1Ki 1:20 And now, my lord the king, the eyes of all Israel are on you, to tell them who shall sit on the throne of
my lord the king after him.
1Ki 1:21 Otherwise it will come to pass, when my lord the king sleeps with his fathers, that I and my son
Solomon will be counted offenders."
1Ki 1:22 While she was still speaking with the king, Nathan the prophet came in.
1Ki 1:23 And they told the king, "Here is Nathan the prophet." And when he came in before the king, he bowed
before the king, with his face to the ground.
1Ki 1:24 And Nathan said, "My lord the king, have you said, 'Adonijah shall reign after me, and he shall sit on
my throne'?
1Ki 1:25 For he has gone down this day and has sacrificed oxen, fattened cattle, and sheep in abundance, and
has invited all the king's sons, the commanders of the army, and Abiathar the priest. And behold, they are eating
and drinking before him, and saying, 'Long live King Adonijah!'
1Ki 1:26 But me, your servant, and Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and your servant
Solomon he has not invited.
1Ki 1:27 Has this thing been brought about by my lord the king and you have not told your servants who should
sit on the throne of my lord the king after him?"
1Ki 1:28 Then King David answered, "Call Bathsheba to me." So she came into the king's presence and stood
before the king.
1Ki 1:29 And the king swore, saying, "As the LORD lives, who has redeemed my soul out of every adversity,
1Ki 1:30 as I swore to you by the LORD, the God of Israel, saying, 'Solomon your son shall reign after me, and
he shall sit on my throne in my place,' even so will I do this day."
1Ki 1:31 Then Bathsheba bowed with her face to the ground and paid homage to the king and said, "May my
lord King David live forever!"
1Ki 1:32 King David said, "Call to me Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada."
So they came before the king.
1Ki 1:33 And the king said to them, "Take with you the servants of your lord and have Solomon my son ride on
my own mule, and bring him down to Gihon.
1Ki 1:34 And let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet there anoint him king over Israel. Then blow the
trumpet and say, 'Long live King Solomon!'
1Ki 1:35 You shall then come up after him, and he shall come and sit on my throne, for he shall be king in my
place. And I have appointed him to be ruler over Israel and over Judah."1Ki 1:36 And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada answered the king, "Amen! May the LORD, the God of my lord the
king, say so.
1Ki 1:37 As the LORD has been with my lord the king, even so may he be with Solomon, and make his throne
greater than the throne of my lord King David."
1Ki 1:38 So Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and
the Pelethites went down and had Solomon ride on King David's mule and brought him to Gihon.
1Ki 1:39 There Zadok the priest took the horn of oil from the tent and anointed Solomon. Then they blew the
trumpet, and all the people said, "Long live King Solomon!"
1Ki 1:40 And all the people went up after him, playing on pipes, and rejoicing with great joy, so that the earth
was split by their noise.
1Ki 1:41 Adonijah and all the guests who were with him heard it as they finished feasting. And when Joab heard
the sound of the trumpet, he said, "What does this uproar in the city mean?"
1Ki 1:42 While he was still speaking, behold, Jonathan the son of Abiathar the priest came. And Adonijah said,
"Come in, for you are a worthy man and bring good news."
1Ki 1:43 Jonathan answered Adonijah, "No, for our lord King David has made Solomon king,
1Ki 1:44 and the king has sent with him Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada,
and the Cherethites and the Pelethites. And they had him ride on the king's mule.
1Ki 1:45 And Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king at Gihon, and they have gone up
from there rejoicing, so that the city is in an uproar. This is the noise that you have heard.
1Ki 1:46 Solomon sits on the royal throne.
1Ki 1:47 Moreover, the king's servants came to congratulate our lord King David, saying, 'May your God make
the name of Solomon more famous than yours, and make his throne greater than your throne.' And the king
bowed himself on the bed.
1Ki 1:48 And the king also said, 'Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, who has granted someone to sit on
my throne this day, my own eyes seeing it.'"
1Ki 1:49 Then all the guests of Adonijah trembled and rose, and each went his own way.
1Ki 1:50 And Adonijah feared Solomon. So he arose and went and took hold of the horns of the altar.
1Ki 1:51 Then it was told Solomon, "Behold, Adonijah fears King Solomon, for behold, he has laid hold of the
horns of the altar, saying, 'Let King Solomon swear to me first that he will not put his servant to death with the
sword.'"
1Ki 1:52 And Solomon said, "If he will show himself a worthy man, not one of his hairs shall fall to the earth, but
if wickedness is found in him, he shall die."
1Ki 1:53 So King Solomon sent, and they brought him down from the altar. And he came and paid homage to
King Solomon, and Solomon said to him, "Go to your house."
1Ki 2:1 When David's time to die drew near, he commanded Solomon his son, saying,
1Ki 2:2 "I am about to go the way of all the earth. Be strong, and show yourself a man,
1Ki 2:3 and keep the charge of the LORD your God, walking in his ways and keeping his statutes, his
commandments, his rules, and his testimonies, as it is written in the Law of Moses, that you may prosper in all
that you do and wherever you turn,
1Ki 2:4 that the LORD may establish his word that he spoke concerning me, saying, 'If your sons pay close
attention to their way, to walk before me in faithfulness with all their heart and with all their soul, you shall not
lack a man on the throne of Israel.'
1Ki 2:5 "Moreover, you also know what Joab the son of Zeruiah did to me, how he dealt with the two
commanders of the armies of Israel, Abner the son of Ner, and Amasa the son of Jether, whom he killed,
avenging in time of peace for blood that had been shed in war, and putting the blood of war on the belt around
his waist and on the sandals on his feet.
1Ki 2:6 Act therefore according to your wisdom, but do not let his gray head go down to Sheol in peace.
1Ki 2:7 But deal loyally with the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite, and let them be among those who eat at your
table, for with such loyalty they met me when I fled from Absalom your brother.
1Ki 2:8 And there is also with you Shimei the son of Gera, the Benjaminite from Bahurim, who cursed me with a
grievous curse on the day when I went to Mahanaim. But when he came down to meet me at the Jordan, I swore
to him by the LORD, saying, 'I will not put you to death with the sword.'
1Ki 2:9 Now therefore do not hold him guiltless, for you are a wise man. You will know what you ought to do to
him, and you shall bring his gray head down with blood to Sheol."
1Ki 2:10 Then David slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David.
1Ki 2:11 And the time that David reigned over Israel was forty years. He reigned seven years in Hebron and
thirty-three years in Jerusalem.
1Ki 2:12 So Solomon sat on the throne of David his father, and his kingdom was firmly established.
1Ki 2:13 Then Adonijah the son of Haggith came to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon. And she said, "Do youcome peacefully?" He said, "Peacefully."
1Ki 2:14 Then he said, "I have something to say to you." She said, "Speak."
1Ki 2:15 He said, "You know that the kingdom was mine, and that all Israel fully expected me to reign. However,
the kingdom has turned about and become my brother's, for it was his from the LORD.
1Ki 2:16 And now I have one request to make of you; do not refuse me." She said to him, "Speak."
1Ki 2:17 And he said, "Please ask King Solomon- he will not refuse you- to give me Abishag the Shunammite as
my wife."
1Ki 2:18 Bathsheba said, "Very well; I will speak for you to the king."
1Ki 2:19 So Bathsheba went to King Solomon to speak to him on behalf of Adonijah. And the king rose to meet
her and bowed down to her. Then he sat on his throne and had a seat brought for the king's mother, and she sat
on his right.
1Ki 2:20 Then she said, "I have one small request to make of you; do not refuse me." And the king said to her,
"Make your request, my mother, for I will not refuse you."
1Ki 2:21 She said, "Let Abishag the Shunammite be given to Adonijah your brother as his wife."
1Ki 2:22 King Solomon answered his mother, "And why do you ask Abishag the Shunammite for Adonijah? Ask
for him the kingdom also, for he is my older brother, and on his side are Abiathar the priest and Joab the son of
Zeruiah."
1Ki 2:23 Then King Solomon swore by the LORD, saying, "God do so to me and more also if this word does not
cost Adonijah his life!
1Ki 2:24 Now therefore as the LORD lives, who has established me and placed me on the throne of David my
father, and who has made me a house, as he promised, Adonijah shall be put to death this day."
1Ki 2:25 So King Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and he struck him down, and he died.
1Ki 2:26 And to Abiathar the priest the king said, "Go to Anathoth, to your estate, for you deserve death. But I
will not at this time put you to death, because you carried the ark of the Lord GOD before David my father, and
because you shared in all my father's affliction."
1Ki 2:27 So Solomon expelled Abiathar from being priest to the LORD, thus fulfilling the word of the LORD that
he had spoken concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh.
1Ki 2:28 When the news came to Joab- for Joab had supported Adonijah although he had not supported
Absalom- Joab fled to the tent of the LORD and caught hold of the horns of the altar.
1Ki 2:29 And when it was told King Solomon, "Joab has fled to the tent of the LORD, and behold, he is beside
the altar," Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, saying, "Go, strike him down."
1Ki 2:30 So Benaiah came to the tent of the LORD and said to him, "The king commands, 'Come out.'"But he
said, "No, I will die here." Then Benaiah brought the king word again, saying, "Thus said Joab, and thus he
answered me."
1Ki 2:31 The king replied to him, "Do as he has said, strike him down and bury him, and thus take away from
me and from my father's house the guilt for the blood that Joab shed without cause.
1Ki 2:32 The LORD will bring back his bloody deeds on his own head, because, without the knowledge of my
father David, he attacked and killed with the sword two men more righteous and better than himself, Abner the
son of Ner, commander of the army of Israel, and Amasa the son of Jether, commander of the army of Judah.
1Ki 2:33 So shall their blood come back on the head of Joab and on the head of his descendants forever. But
for David and for his descendants and for his house and for his throne there shall be peace from the LORD
forevermore."
1Ki 2:34 Then Benaiah the son of Jehoiada went up and struck him down and put him to death. And he was
buried in his own house in the wilderness.
1Ki 2:35 The king put Benaiah the son of Jehoiada over the army in place of Joab, and the king put Zadok the
priest in the place of Abiathar.
1Ki 2:36 Then the king sent and summoned Shimei and said to him, "Build yourself a house in Jerusalem and
dwell there, and do not go out from there to any place whatever.
1Ki 2:37 For on the day you go out and cross the brook Kidron, know for certain that you shall die. Your blood
shall be on your own head."
1Ki 2:38 And Shimei said to the king, "What you say is good; as my lord the king has said, so will your servant
do." So Shimei lived in Jerusalem many days.
1Ki 2:39 But it happened at the end of three years that two of Shimei's servants ran away to Achish, son of
Maacah, king of Gath. And when it was told Shimei, "Behold, your servants are in Gath,"
1Ki 2:40 Shimei arose and saddled a donkey and went to Gath to Achish to seek his servants. Shimei went and
brought his servants from Gath.
1Ki 2:41 And when Solomon was told that Shimei had gone from Jerusalem to Gath and returned,
1Ki 2:42 the king sent and summoned Shimei and said to him, "Did I not make you swear by the LORD and
solemnly warn you, saying, 'Know for certain that on the day you go out and go to any place whatever, you shalldie'? And you said to me, 'What you say is good; I will obey.'
1Ki 2:43 Why then have you not kept your oath to the LORD and the commandment with which I commanded
you?"
1Ki 2:44 The king also said to Shimei, "You know in your own heart all the harm that you did to David my father.
So the LORD will bring back your harm on your own head.
1Ki 2:45 But King Solomon shall be blessed, and the throne of David shall be established before the LORD
forever."
1Ki 2:46 Then the king commanded Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and he went out and struck him down, and he
died. So the kingdom was established in the hand of Solomon.
1Ki 3:1 Solomon made a marriage alliance with Pharaoh king of Egypt. He took Pharaoh's daughter and
brought her into the city of David until he had finished building his own house and the house of the LORD and
the wall around Jerusalem.
1Ki 3:2 The people were sacrificing at the high places, however, because no house had yet been built for the
name of the LORD.
1Ki 3:3 Solomon loved the LORD, walking in the statutes of David his father, only he sacrificed and made
offerings at the high places.
1Ki 3:4 And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was the great high place. Solomon used to offer a
thousand burnt offerings on that altar.
1Ki 3:5 At Gibeon the LORD appeared to Solomon in a dream by night, and God said, "Ask what I shall give
you."
1Ki 3:6 And Solomon said, "You have shown great and steadfast love to your servant David my father, because
he walked before you in faithfulness, in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart toward you. And you have
kept for him this great and steadfast love and have given him a son to sit on his throne this day.
1Ki 3:7 And now, O LORD my God, you have made your servant king in place of David my father, although I am
but a little child. I do not know how to go out or come in.
1Ki 3:8 And your servant is in the midst of your people whom you have chosen, a great people, too many to be
numbered or counted for multitude.
1Ki 3:9 Give your servant therefore an understanding mind to govern your people, that I may discern between
good and evil, for who is able to govern this your great people?"
1Ki 3:10 It pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this.
1Ki 3:11 And God said to him, "Because you have asked this, and have not asked for yourself long life or riches
or the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself understanding to discern what is right,
1Ki 3:12 behold, I now do according to your word. Behold, I give you a wise and discerning mind, so that none
like you has been before you and none like you shall arise after you.
1Ki 3:13 I give you also what you have not asked, both riches and honor, so that no other king shall compare
with you, all your days.
1Ki 3:14 And if you will walk in my ways, keeping my statutes and my commandments, as your father David
walked, then I will lengthen your days."
1Ki 3:15 And Solomon awoke, and behold, it was a dream. Then he came to Jerusalem and stood before the
ark of the covenant of the LORD, and offered up burnt offerings and peace offerings, and made a feast for all his
servants.
1Ki 3:16 Then two prostitutes came to the king and stood before him.
1Ki 3:17 The one woman said, "Oh, my lord, this woman and I live in the same house, and I gave birth to a child
while she was in the house.
1Ki 3:18 Then on the third day after I gave birth, this woman also gave birth. And we were alone. There was no
one else with us in the house; only we two were in the house.
1Ki 3:19 And this woman's son died in the night, because she lay on him.
1Ki 3:20 And she arose at midnight and took my son from beside me, while your servant slept, and laid him at
her breast, and laid her dead son at my breast.
1Ki 3:21 When I rose in the morning to nurse my child, behold, he was dead. But when I looked at him closely in
the morning, behold, he was not the child that I had borne."
1Ki 3:22 But the other woman said, "No, the living child is mine, and the dead child is yours." The first said, "No,
the dead child is yours, and the living child is mine." Thus they spoke before the king.
1Ki 3:23 Then the king said, "The one says, 'This is my son that is alive, and your son is dead'; and the other
says, 'No; but your son is dead, and my son is the living one.'"
1Ki 3:24 And the king said, "Bring me a sword." So a sword was brought before the king.
1Ki 3:25 And the king said, "Divide the living child in two, and give half to the one and half to the other."
1Ki 3:26 Then the woman whose son was alive said to the king, because her heart yearned for her son, "Oh, my
lord, give her the living child, and by no means put him to death." But the other said, "He shall be neither minenor yours; divide him."
1Ki 3:27 Then the king answered and said, "Give the living child to the first woman, and by no means put him to
death; she is his mother."
1Ki 3:28 And all Israel heard of the judgment that the king had rendered, and they stood in awe of the king,
because they perceived that the wisdom of God was in him to do justice.
1Ki 4:1 King Solomon was king over all Israel,
1Ki 4:2 and these were his high officials: Azariah the son of Zadok was the priest;
1Ki 4:3 Elihoreph and Ahijah the sons of Shisha were secretaries; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder;
1Ki 4:4 Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was in command of the army; Zadok and Abiathar were priests;
1Ki 4:5 Azariah the son of Nathan was over the officers; Zabud the son of Nathan was priest and king's friend;
1Ki 4:6 Ahishar was in charge of the palace; and Adoniram the son of Abda was in charge of the forced labor.
1Ki 4:7 Solomon had twelve officers over all Israel, who provided food for the king and his household. Each man
had to make provision for one month in the year.
1Ki 4:8 These were their names: Ben-hur, in the hill country of Ephraim;
1Ki 4:9 Ben-deker, in Makaz, Shaalbim, Beth-shemesh, and Elonbeth-hanan;
1Ki 4:10 Ben-hesed, in Arubboth (to him belonged Socoh and all the land of Hepher);
1Ki 4:11 Ben-abinadab, in all Naphath-dor (he had Taphath the daughter of Solomon as his wife);
1Ki 4:12 Baana the son of Ahilud, in Taanach, Megiddo, and all Beth-shean that is beside Zarethan below
Jezreel, and from Beth-shean to Abel-meholah, as far as the other side of Jokmeam;
1Ki 4:13 Ben-geber, in Ramoth-gilead (he had the villages of Jair the son of Manasseh, which are in Gilead, and
he had the region of Argob, which is in Bashan, sixty great cities with walls and bronze bars);
1Ki 4:14 Ahinadab the son of Iddo, in Mahanaim;
1Ki 4:15 Ahimaaz, in Naphtali (he had taken Basemath the daughter of Solomon as his wife);
1Ki 4:16 Baana the son of Hushai, in Asher and Bealoth;
1Ki 4:17 Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah, in Issachar;
1Ki 4:18 Shimei the son of Ela, in Benjamin;
1Ki 4:19 Geber the son of Uri, in the land of Gilead, the country of Sihon king of the Amorites and of Og king of
Bashan. And there was one governor who was over the land.
1Ki 4:20 Judah and Israel were as many as the sand by the sea. They ate and drank and were happy.
1Ki 4:21 Solomon ruled over all the kingdoms from the Euphrates to the land of the Philistines and to the border
of Egypt. They brought tribute and served Solomon all the days of his life.
1Ki 4:22 Solomon's provision for one day was thirty cors of fine flour and sixty cors of meal,
1Ki 4:23 ten fat oxen, and twenty pasture-fed cattle, a hundred sheep, besides deer, gazelles, roebucks, and
fattened fowl.
1Ki 4:24 For he had dominion over all the region west of the Euphrates from Tiphsah to Gaza, over all the kings
west of the Euphrates. And he had peace on all sides around him.
1Ki 4:25 And Judah and Israel lived in safety, from Dan even to Beersheba, every man under his vine and under
his fig tree, all the days of Solomon.
1Ki 4:26 Solomon also had 40,000 stalls of horses for his chariots, and 12,000 horsemen.
1Ki 4:27 And those officers supplied provisions for King Solomon, and for all who came to King Solomon's table,
each one in his month. They let nothing be lacking.
1Ki 4:28 Barley also and straw for the horses and swift steeds they brought to the place where it was required,
each according to his duty.
1Ki 4:29 And God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding beyond measure, and breadth of mind like the
sand on the seashore,
1Ki 4:30 so that Solomon's wisdom surpassed the wisdom of all the people of the east and all the wisdom of
Egypt.
1Ki 4:31 For he was wiser than all other men, wiser than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, Calcol, and Darda,
the sons of Mahol, and his fame was in all the surrounding nations.
1Ki 4:32 He also spoke 3,000 proverbs, and his songs were 1,005.
1Ki 4:33 He spoke of trees, from the cedar that is in Lebanon to the hyssop that grows out of the wall. He spoke
also of beasts, and of birds, and of reptiles, and of fish.
1Ki 4:34 And people of all nations came to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and from all the kings of the earth, who
had heard of his wisdom.
1Ki 5:1 Now Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants to Solomon when he heard that they had anointed him king in
place of his father, for Hiram always loved David.
1Ki 5:2 And Solomon sent word to Hiram,
1Ki 5:3 "You know that David my father could not build a house for the name of the LORD his God because of
the warfare with which his enemies surrounded him, until the LORD put them under the soles of his feet.1Ki 5:4 But now the LORD my God has given me rest on every side. There is neither adversary nor misfortune.
1Ki 5:5 And so I intend to build a house for the name of the LORD my God, as the LORD said to David my
father, 'Your son, whom I will set on your throne in your place, shall build the house for my name.'
1Ki 5:6 Now therefore command that cedars of Lebanon be cut for me. And my servants will join your servants,
and I will pay you for your servants such wages as you set, for you know that there is no one among us who
knows how to cut timber like the Sidonians."
1Ki 5:7 As soon as Hiram heard the words of Solomon, he rejoiced greatly and said, "Blessed be the LORD this
day, who has given to David a wise son to be over this great people."
1Ki 5:8 And Hiram sent to Solomon, saying, "I have heard the message that you have sent to me. I am ready to
do all you desire in the matter of cedar and cypress timber.
1Ki 5:9 My servants shall bring it down to the sea from Lebanon, and I will make it into rafts to go by sea to the
place you direct. And I will have them broken up there, and you shall receive it. And you shall meet my wishes by
providing food for my household."
1Ki 5:10 So Hiram supplied Solomon with all the timber of cedar and cypress that he desired,
1Ki 5:11 while Solomon gave Hiram 20,000 cors of wheat as food for his household, and 20,000 cors of beaten
oil. Solomon gave this to Hiram year by year.
1Ki 5:12 And the LORD gave Solomon wisdom, as he promised him. And there was peace between Hiram and
Solomon, and the two of them made a treaty.
1Ki 5:13 King Solomon drafted forced labor out of all Israel, and the draft numbered 30,000 men.
1Ki 5:14 And he sent them to Lebanon, 10,000 a month in shifts. They would be a month in Lebanon and two
months at home. Adoniram was in charge of the draft.
1Ki 5:15 Solomon also had 70,000 burden-bearers and 80,000 stonecutters in the hill country,
1Ki 5:16 besides Solomon's 3,300 chief officers who were over the work, who had charge of the people who
carried on the work.
1Ki 5:17 At the king's command they quarried out great, costly stones in order to lay the foundation of the house
with dressed stones.
1Ki 5:18 So Solomon's builders and Hiram's builders and the men of Gebal did the cutting and prepared the
timber and the stone to build the house.
1Ki 6:1 In the four hundred and eightieth year after the people of Israel came out of the land of Egypt, in the
fourth year of Solomon's reign over Israel, in the month of Ziv, which is the second month, he began to build the
house of the LORD.
1Ki 6:2 The house that King Solomon built for the LORD was sixty cubits long, twenty cubits wide, and thirty
cubits high.
1Ki 6:3 The vestibule in front of the nave of the house was twenty cubits long, equal to the width of the house,
and ten cubits deep in front of the house.
1Ki 6:4 And he made for the house windows with recessed frames.
1Ki 6:5 He also built a structure against the wall of the house, running around the walls of the house, both the
nave and the inner sanctuary. And he made side chambers all around.
1Ki 6:6 The lowest story was five cubits broad, the middle one was six cubits broad, and the third was seven
cubits broad. For around the outside of the house he made offsets on the wall in order that the supporting beams
should not be inserted into the walls of the house.
1Ki 6:7 When the house was built, it was with stone prepared at the quarry, so that neither hammer nor axe nor
any tool of iron was heard in the temple while it was being built.
1Ki 6:8 The entrance for the lowest story was on the south side of the house, and one went up by stairs to the
middle story, and from the middle story to the third.
1Ki 6:9 So he built the house and finished it, and he made the ceiling of the house of beams and planks of
cedar.
1Ki 6:10 He built the structure against the whole house, five cubits high, and it was joined to the house with
timbers of cedar.
1Ki 6:11 Now the word of the LORD came to Solomon,
1Ki 6:12 "Concerning this house that you are building, if you will walk in my statutes and obey my rules and
keep all my commandments and walk in them, then I will establish my word with you, which I spoke to David
your father.
1Ki 6:13 And I will dwell among the children of Israel and will not forsake my people Israel."
1Ki 6:14 So Solomon built the house and finished it.
1Ki 6:15 He lined the walls of the house on the inside with boards of cedar. From the floor of the house to the
walls of the ceiling, he covered them on the inside with wood, and he covered the floor of the house with boards
of cypress.
1Ki 6:16 He built twenty cubits of the rear of the house with boards of cedar from the floor to the walls, and hebuilt this within as an inner sanctuary, as the Most Holy Place.
1Ki 6:17 The house, that is, the nave in front of the inner sanctuary, was forty cubits long.
1Ki 6:18 The cedar within the house was carved in the form of gourds and open flowers. All was cedar; no stone
was seen.
1Ki 6:19 The inner sanctuary he prepared in the innermost part of the house, to set there the ark of the
covenant of the LORD.
1Ki 6:20 The inner sanctuary was twenty cubits long, twenty cubits wide, and twenty cubits high, and he overlaid
it with pure gold. He also overlaid an altar of cedar.
1Ki 6:21 And Solomon overlaid the inside of the house with pure gold, and he drew chains of gold across, in
front of the inner sanctuary, and overlaid it with gold.
1Ki 6:22 And he overlaid the whole house with gold, until all the house was finished. Also the whole altar that
belonged to the inner sanctuary he overlaid with gold.
1Ki 6:23 In the inner sanctuary he made two cherubim of olivewood, each ten cubits high.
1Ki 6:24 Five cubits was the length of one wing of the cherub, and five cubits the length of the other wing of the
cherub; it was ten cubits from the tip of one wing to the tip of the other.
1Ki 6:25 The other cherub also measured ten cubits; both cherubim had the same measure and the same form.
1Ki 6:26 The height of one cherub was ten cubits, and so was that of the other cherub.
1Ki 6:27 He put the cherubim in the innermost part of the house. And the wings of the cherubim were spread out
so that a wing of one touched the one wall, and a wing of the other cherub touched the other wall; their other
wings touched each other in the middle of the house.
1Ki 6:28 And he overlaid the cherubim with gold.
1Ki 6:29 Around all the walls of the house he carved engraved figures of cherubim and palm trees and open
flowers, in the inner and outer rooms.
1Ki 6:30 The floor of the house he overlaid with gold in the inner and outer rooms.
1Ki 6:31 For the entrance to the inner sanctuary he made doors of olivewood; the lintel and the doorposts were
five-sided.
1Ki 6:32 He covered the two doors of olivewood with carvings of cherubim, palm trees, and open flowers. He
overlaid them with gold and spread gold on the cherubim and on the palm trees.
1Ki 6:33 So also he made for the entrance to the nave doorposts of olivewood, in the form of a square,
1Ki 6:34 and two doors of cypress wood. The two leaves of the one door were folding, and the two leaves of the
other door were folding.
1Ki 6:35 On them he carved cherubim and palm trees and open flowers, and he overlaid them with gold evenly
applied on the carved work.
1Ki 6:36 He built the inner court with three courses of cut stone and one course of cedar beams.
1Ki 6:37 In the fourth year the foundation of the house of the LORD was laid, in the month of Ziv.
1Ki 6:38 And in the eleventh year, in the month of Bul, which is the eighth month, the house was finished in all
its parts, and according to all its specifications. He was seven years in building it.
1Ki 7:1 Solomon was building his own house thirteen years, and he finished his entire house.
1Ki 7:2 He built the House of the Forest of Lebanon. Its length was a hundred cubits and its breadth fifty cubits
and its height thirty cubits, and it was built on four rows of cedar pillars, with cedar beams on the pillars.
1Ki 7:3 And it was covered with cedar above the chambers that were on the forty-five pillars, fifteen in each row.
1Ki 7:4 There were window frames in three rows, and window opposite window in three tiers.
1Ki 7:5 All the doorways and windows had square frames, and window was opposite window in three tiers.
1Ki 7:6 And he made the Hall of Pillars; its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth thirty cubits. There was a
porch in front with pillars, and a canopy in front of them.
1Ki 7:7 And he made the Hall of the Throne where he was to pronounce judgment, even the Hall of Judgment. It
was finished with cedar from floor to rafters.
1Ki 7:8 His own house where he was to dwell, in the other court back of the hall, was of like workmanship.
Solomon also made a house like this hall for Pharaoh's daughter whom he had taken in marriage.
1Ki 7:9 All these were made of costly stones, cut according to measure, sawed with saws, back and front, even
from the foundation to the coping, and from the outside to the great court.
1Ki 7:10 The foundation was of costly stones, huge stones, stones of eight and ten cubits.
1Ki 7:11 And above were costly stones, cut according to measurement, and cedar.
1Ki 7:12 The great court had three courses of cut stone all around, and a course of cedar beams; so had the
inner court of the house of the LORD and the vestibule of the house.
1Ki 7:13 And King Solomon sent and brought Hiram from Tyre.
1Ki 7:14 He was the son of a widow of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was a man of Tyre, a worker in
bronze. And he was full of wisdom, understanding, and skill for making any work in bronze. He came to King
Solomon and did all his work.1Ki 7:15 He cast two pillars of bronze. Eighteen cubits was the height of one pillar, and a line of twelve cubits
measured its circumference. It was hollow, and its thickness was four fingers. The second pillar was the same.
1Ki 7:16 He also made two capitals of cast bronze to set on the tops of the pillars. The height of the one capital
was five cubits, and the height of the other capital was five cubits.
1Ki 7:17 There were lattices of checker work with wreaths of chain work for the capitals on the tops of the
pillars, a lattice for the one capital and a lattice for the other capital.
1Ki 7:18 Likewise he made pomegranates in two rows around the one latticework to cover the capital that was
on the top of the pillar, and he did the same with the other capital.
1Ki 7:19 Now the capitals that were on the tops of the pillars in the vestibule were of lily-work, four cubits.
1Ki 7:20 The capitals were on the two pillars and also above the rounded projection which was beside the
latticework. There were two hundred pomegranates in two rows all around, and so with the other capital.
1Ki 7:21 He set up the pillars at the vestibule of the temple. He set up the pillar on the south and called its name
Jachin, and he set up the pillar on the north and called its name Boaz.
1Ki 7:22 And on the tops of the pillars was lily-work. Thus the work of the pillars was finished.
1Ki 7:23 Then he made the sea of cast metal. It was round, ten cubits from brim to brim, and five cubits high,
and a line of thirty cubits measured its circumference.
1Ki 7:24 Under its brim were gourds, for ten cubits, compassing the sea all around. The gourds were in two
rows, cast with it when it was cast.
1Ki 7:25 It stood on twelve oxen, three facing north, three facing west, three facing south, and three facing east.
The sea was set on them, and all their rear parts were inward.
1Ki 7:26 Its thickness was a handbreadth, and its brim was made like the brim of a cup, like the flower of a lily. It
held two thousand baths.
1Ki 7:27 He also made the ten stands of bronze. Each stand was four cubits long, four cubits wide, and three
cubits high.
1Ki 7:28 This was the construction of the stands: they had panels, and the panels were set in the frames,
1Ki 7:29 and on the panels that were set in the frames were lions, oxen, and cherubim. On the frames, both
above and below the lions and oxen, there were wreaths of beveled work.
1Ki 7:30 Moreover, each stand had four bronze wheels and axles of bronze, and at the four corners were
supports for a basin. The supports were cast with wreaths at the side of each.
1Ki 7:31 Its opening was within a crown that projected upward one cubit. Its opening was round, as a pedestal is
made, a cubit and a half deep. At its opening there were carvings, and its panels were square, not round.
1Ki 7:32 And the four wheels were underneath the panels. The axles of the wheels were of one piece with the
stands, and the height of a wheel was a cubit and a half.
1Ki 7:33 The wheels were made like a chariot wheel; their axles, their rims, their spokes, and their hubs were all
cast.
1Ki 7:34 There were four supports at the four corners of each stand. The supports were of one piece with the
stands.
1Ki 7:35 And on the top of the stand there was a round band half a cubit high; and on the top of the stand its
stays and its panels were of one piece with it.
1Ki 7:36 And on the surfaces of its stays and on its panels, he carved cherubim, lions, and palm trees,
according to the space of each, with wreaths all around.
1Ki 7:37 After this manner he made the ten stands. All of them were cast alike, of the same measure and the
same form.
1Ki 7:38 And he made ten basins of bronze. Each basin held forty baths, each basin measured four cubits, and
there was a basin for each of the ten stands.
1Ki 7:39 And he set the stands, five on the south side of the house, and five on the north side of the house. And
he set the sea at the southeast corner of the house.
1Ki 7:40 Hiram also made the pots, the shovels, and the basins. So Hiram finished all the work that he did for
King Solomon on the house of the LORD:
1Ki 7:41 the two pillars, the two bowls of the capitals that were on the tops of the pillars, and the two
latticeworks to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the tops of the pillars;
1Ki 7:42 and the four hundred pomegranates for the two latticeworks, two rows of pomegranates for each
latticework, to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the pillars;
1Ki 7:43 the ten stands, and the ten basins on the stands;
1Ki 7:44 and the one sea, and the twelve oxen underneath the sea.
1Ki 7:45 Now the pots, the shovels, and the basins, all these vessels in the house of the LORD, which Hiram
made for King Solomon, were of burnished bronze.
1Ki 7:46 In the plain of the Jordan the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zarethan.
1Ki 7:47 And Solomon left all the vessels unweighed, because there were so many of them; the weight of thebronze was not ascertained.
1Ki 7:48 So Solomon made all the vessels that were in the house of the LORD: the golden altar, the golden
table for the bread of the Presence,
1Ki 7:49 the lampstands of pure gold, five on the south side and five on the north, before the inner sanctuary;
the flowers, the lamps, and the tongs, of gold;
1Ki 7:50 the cups, snuffers, basins, dishes for incense, and fire pans, of pure gold; and the sockets of gold, for
the doors of the innermost part of the house, the Most Holy Place, and for the doors of the nave of the temple.
1Ki 7:51 Thus all the work that King Solomon did on the house of the LORD was finished. And Solomon brought
in the things that David his father had dedicated, the silver, the gold, and the vessels, and stored them in the
treasuries of the house of the LORD.
1Ki 8:1 Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the leaders of the fathers'
houses of the people of Israel, before King Solomon in Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of the
LORD out of the city of David, which is Zion.
1Ki 8:2 And all the men of Israel assembled to King Solomon at the feast in the month Ethanim, which is the
seventh month.
1Ki 8:3 And all the elders of Israel came, and the priests took up the ark.
1Ki 8:4 And they brought up the ark of the LORD, the tent of meeting, and all the holy vessels that were in the
tent; the priests and the Levites brought them up.
1Ki 8:5 And King Solomon and all the congregation of Israel, who had assembled before him, were with him
before the ark, sacrificing so many sheep and oxen that they could not be counted or numbered.
1Ki 8:6 Then the priests brought the ark of the covenant of the LORD to its place in the inner sanctuary of the
house, in the Most Holy Place, underneath the wings of the cherubim.
1Ki 8:7 For the cherubim spread out their wings over the place of the ark, so that the cherubim overshadowed
the ark and its poles.
1Ki 8:8 And the poles were so long that the ends of the poles were seen from the Holy Place before the inner
sanctuary; but they could not be seen from outside. And they are there to this day.
1Ki 8:9 There was nothing in the ark except the two tablets of stone that Moses put there at Horeb, where the
LORD made a covenant with the people of Israel, when they came out of the land of Egypt.
1Ki 8:10 And when the priests came out of the Holy Place, a cloud filled the house of the LORD,
1Ki 8:11 so that the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud, for the glory of the LORD filled the
house of the LORD.
1Ki 8:12 Then Solomon said, "The LORD has said that he would dwell in thick darkness.
1Ki 8:13 I have indeed built you an exalted house, a place for you to dwell in forever."
1Ki 8:14 Then the king turned around and blessed all the assembly of Israel, while all the assembly of Israel
stood.
1Ki 8:15 And he said, "Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, who with his hand has fulfilled what he
promised with his mouth to David my father, saying,
1Ki 8:16 'Since the day that I brought my people Israel out of Egypt, I chose no city out of all the tribes of Israel
in which to build a house, that my name might be there. But I chose David to be over my people Israel.'
1Ki 8:17 Now it was in the heart of David my father to build a house for the name of the LORD, the God of
Israel.
1Ki 8:18 But the LORD said to David my father, 'Whereas it was in your heart to build a house for my name, you
did well that it was in your heart.
1Ki 8:19 Nevertheless, you shall not build the house, but your son who shall be born to you shall build the house
for my name.'
1Ki 8:20 Now the LORD has fulfilled his promise that he made. For I have risen in the place of David my father,
and sit on the throne of Israel, as the LORD promised, and I have built the house for the name of the LORD, the
God of Israel.
1Ki 8:21 And there I have provided a place for the ark, in which is the covenant of the LORD that he made with
our fathers, when he brought them out of the land of Egypt."
1Ki 8:22 Then Solomon stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of all the assembly of Israel and
spread out his hands toward heaven,
1Ki 8:23 and said, "O LORD, God of Israel, there is no God like you, in heaven above or on earth beneath,
keeping covenant and showing steadfast love to your servants who walk before you with all their heart,
1Ki 8:24 who have kept with your servant David my father what you declared to him. You spoke with your
mouth, and with your hand have fulfilled it this day.
1Ki 8:25 Now therefore, O LORD, God of Israel, keep for your servant David my father what you have promised
him, saying, 'You shall not lack a man to sit before me on the throne of Israel, if only your sons pay close
attention to their way, to walk before me as you have walked before me.'1Ki 8:26 Now therefore, O God of Israel, let your word be confirmed, which you have spoken to your servant
David my father.
1Ki 8:27 "But will God indeed dwell on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain you;
how much less this house that I have built!
1Ki 8:28 Yet have regard to the prayer of your servant and to his plea, O LORD my God, listening to the cry and
to the prayer that your servant prays before you this day,
1Ki 8:29 that your eyes may be open night and day toward this house, the place of which you have said, 'My
name shall be there,' that you may listen to the prayer that your servant offers toward this place.
1Ki 8:30 And listen to the plea of your servant and of your people Israel, when they pray toward this place. And
listen in heaven your dwelling place, and when you hear, forgive.
1Ki 8:31 "If a man sins against his neighbor and is made to take an oath and comes and swears his oath before
your altar in this house,
1Ki 8:32 then hear in heaven and act and judge your servants, condemning the guilty by bringing his conduct on
his own head, and vindicating the righteous by rewarding him according to his righteousness.
1Ki 8:33 "When your people Israel are defeated before the enemy because they have sinned against you, and if
they turn again to you and acknowledge your name and pray and plead with you in this house,
1Ki 8:34 then hear in heaven and forgive the sin of your people Israel and bring them again to the land that you
gave to their fathers.
1Ki 8:35 "When heaven is shut up and there is no rain because they have sinned against you, if they pray
toward this place and acknowledge your name and turn from their sin, when you afflict them,
1Ki 8:36 then hear in heaven and forgive the sin of your servants, your people Israel, when you teach them the
good way in which they should walk, and grant rain upon your land, which you have given to your people as an
inheritance.
1Ki 8:37 "If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence or blight or mildew or locust or caterpillar, if their
enemy besieges them in the land at their gates, whatever plague, whatever sickness there is,
1Ki 8:38 whatever prayer, whatever plea is made by any man or by all your people Israel, each knowing the
affliction of his own heart and stretching out his hands toward this house,
1Ki 8:39 then hear in heaven your dwelling place and forgive and act and render to each whose heart you know,
according to all his ways ( for you, you only, know the hearts of all the children of mankind),
1Ki 8:40 that they may fear you all the days that they live in the land that you gave to our fathers.
1Ki 8:41 "Likewise, when a foreigner, who is not of your people Israel, comes from a far country for your name's
sake
1Ki 8:42 (for they shall hear of your great name and your mighty hand, and of your outstretched arm), when he
comes and prays toward this house,
1Ki 8:43 hear in heaven your dwelling place and do according to all for which the foreigner calls to you, in order
that all the peoples of the earth may know your name and fear you, as do your people Israel, and that they may
know that this house that I have built is called by your name.
1Ki 8:44 "If your people go out to battle against their enemy, by whatever way you shall send them, and they
pray to the LORD toward the city that you have chosen and the house that I have built for your name,
1Ki 8:45 then hear in heaven their prayer and their plea, and maintain their cause.
1Ki 8:46 "If they sin against you- for there is no one who does not sin- and you are angry with them and give
them to an enemy, so that they are carried away captive to the land of the enemy, far off or near,
1Ki 8:47 yet if they turn their heart in the land to which they have been carried captive, and repent and plead
with you in the land of their captors, saying, 'We have sinned and have acted perversely and wickedly,'
1Ki 8:48 if they repent with all their mind and with all their heart in the land of their enemies, who carried them
captive, and pray to you toward their land, which you gave to their fathers, the city that you have chosen, and the
house that I have built for your name,
1Ki 8:49 then hear in heaven your dwelling place their prayer and their plea, and maintain their cause
1Ki 8:50 and forgive your people who have sinned against you, and all their transgressions that they have
committed against you, and grant them compassion in the sight of those who carried them captive, that they may
have compassion on them
1Ki 8:51 ( for they are your people, and your heritage, which you brought out of Egypt, from the midst of the iron
furnace).
1Ki 8:52 Let your eyes be open to the plea of your servant and to the plea of your people Israel, giving ear to
them whenever they call to you.
1Ki 8:53 For you separated them from among all the peoples of the earth to be your heritage, as you declared
through Moses your servant, when you brought our fathers out of Egypt, O Lord GOD."
1Ki 8:54 Now as Solomon finished offering all this prayer and plea to the LORD, he arose from before the altar
of the LORD, where he had knelt with hands outstretched toward heaven.1Ki 8:55 And he stood and blessed all the assembly of Israel with a loud voice, saying,
1Ki 8:56 "Blessed be the LORD who has given rest to his people Israel, according to all that he promised. Not
one word has failed of all his good promise, which he spoke by Moses his servant.
1Ki 8:57 The LORD our God be with us, as he was with our fathers. May he not leave us or forsake us,
1Ki 8:58 that he may incline our hearts to him, to walk in all his ways and to keep his commandments, his
statutes, and his rules, which he commanded our fathers.
1Ki 8:59 Let these words of mine, with which I have pleaded before the LORD, be near to the LORD our God
day and night, and may he maintain the cause of his servant and the cause of his people Israel, as each day
requires,
1Ki 8:60 that all the peoples of the earth may know that the LORD is God; there is no other.
1Ki 8:61 Let your heart therefore be wholly true to the LORD our God, walking in his statutes and keeping his
commandments, as at this day."
1Ki 8:62 Then the king, and all Israel with him, offered sacrifice before the LORD.
1Ki 8:63 Solomon offered as peace offerings to the LORD 22,000 oxen and 120,000 sheep. So the king and all
the people of Israel dedicated the house of the LORD.
1Ki 8:64 The same day the king consecrated the middle of the court that was before the house of the LORD, for
there he offered the burnt offering and the grain offering and the fat pieces of the peace offerings, because the
bronze altar that was before the LORD was too small to receive the burnt offering and the grain offering and the
fat pieces of the peace offerings.
1Ki 8:65 So Solomon held the feast at that time, and all Israel with him, a great assembly, from Lebo-hamath to
the Brook of Egypt, before the LORD our God, seven days.
1Ki 8:66 On the eighth day he sent the people away, and they blessed the king and went to their homes joyful
and glad of heart for all the goodness that the LORD had shown to David his servant and to Israel his people.
1Ki 9:1 As soon as Solomon had finished building the house of the LORD and the king's house and all that
Solomon desired to build,
1Ki 9:2 the LORD appeared to Solomon a second time, as he had appeared to him at Gibeon.
1Ki 9:3 And the LORD said to him, "I have heard your prayer and your plea, which you have made before me. I
have consecrated this house that you have built, by putting my name there forever. My eyes and my heart will be
there for all time.
1Ki 9:4 And as for you, if you will walk before me, as David your father walked, with integrity of heart and
uprightness, doing according to all that I have commanded you, and keeping my statutes and my rules,
1Ki 9:5 then I will establish your royal throne over Israel forever, as I promised David your father, saying, 'You
shall not lack a man on the throne of Israel.'
1Ki 9:6 But if you turn aside from following me, you or your children, and do not keep my commandments and
my statutes that I have set before you, but go and serve other gods and worship them,
1Ki 9:7 then I will cut off Israel from the land that I have given them, and the house that I have consecrated for
my name I will cast out of my sight, and Israel will become a proverb and a byword among all peoples.
1Ki 9:8 And this house will become a heap of ruins. Everyone passing by it will be astonished and will hiss, and
they will say, 'Why has the LORD done thus to this land and to this house?'
1Ki 9:9 Then they will say, 'Because they abandoned the LORD their God who brought their fathers out of the
land of Egypt and laid hold on other gods and worshiped them and served them. Therefore the LORD has
brought all this disaster on them.'"
1Ki 9:10 At the end of twenty years, in which Solomon had built the two houses, the house of the LORD and the
king's house,
1Ki 9:11 and Hiram king of Tyre had supplied Solomon with cedar and cypress timber and gold, as much as he
desired, King Solomon gave to Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee.
1Ki 9:12 But when Hiram came from Tyre to see the cities that Solomon had given him, they did not please him.
1Ki 9:13 Therefore he said, "What kind of cities are these that you have given me, my brother?" So they are
called the land of Cabul to this day.
1Ki 9:14 Hiram had sent to the king 120 talents of gold.
1Ki 9:15 And this is the account of the forced labor that King Solomon drafted to build the house of the LORD
and his own house and the Millo and the wall of Jerusalem and Hazor and Megiddo and Gezer
1Ki 9:16 (Pharaoh king of Egypt had gone up and captured Gezer and burned it with fire, and had killed the
Canaanites who lived in the city, and had given it as dowry to his daughter, Solomon's wife;
1Ki 9:17 so Solomon rebuilt Gezer) and Lower Beth-horon
1Ki 9:18 and Baalath and Tamar in the wilderness, in the land of Judah,
1Ki 9:19 and all the store cities that Solomon had, and the cities for his chariots, and the cities for his horsemen,
and whatever Solomon desired to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion.
1Ki 9:20 All the people who were left of the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites,who were not of the people of Israel-
1Ki 9:21 their descendants who were left after them in the land, whom the people of Israel were unable to
devote to destruction- these Solomon drafted to be slaves, and so they are to this day.
1Ki 9:22 But of the people of Israel Solomon made no slaves. They were the soldiers, they were his officials, his
commanders, his captains, his chariot commanders and his horsemen.
1Ki 9:23 These were the chief officers who were over Solomon's work: 550 who had charge of the people who
carried on the work.
1Ki 9:24 But Pharaoh's daughter went up from the city of David to her own house that Solomon had built for her.
Then he built the Millo.
1Ki 9:25 Three times a year Solomon used to offer up burnt offerings and peace offerings on the altar that he
built to the LORD, making offerings with it before the LORD. So he finished the house.
1Ki 9:26 King Solomon built a fleet of ships at Ezion-geber, which is near Eloth on the shore of the Red Sea, in
the land of Edom.
1Ki 9:27 And Hiram sent with the fleet his servants, seamen who were familiar with the sea, together with the
servants of Solomon.
1Ki 9:28 And they went to Ophir and brought from there gold, 420 talents, and they brought it to King Solomon.
1Ki 10:1 Now when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon concerning the name of the LORD, she
came to test him with hard questions.
1Ki 10:2 She came to Jerusalem with a very great retinue, with camels bearing spices and very much gold and
precious stones. And when she came to Solomon, she told him all that was on her mind.
1Ki 10:3 And Solomon answered all her questions; there was nothing hidden from the king that he could not
explain to her.
1Ki 10:4 And when the queen of Sheba had seen all the wisdom of Solomon, the house that he had built,
1Ki 10:5 the food of his table, the seating of his officials, and the attendance of his servants, their clothing, his
cupbearers, and his burnt offerings that he offered at the house of the LORD, there was no more breath in her.
1Ki 10:6 And she said to the king, "The report was true that I heard in my own land of your words and of your
wisdom,
1Ki 10:7 but I did not believe the reports until I came and my own eyes had seen it. And behold, the half was not
told me. Your wisdom and prosperity surpass the report that I heard.
1Ki 10:8 Happy are your men! Happy are your servants, who continually stand before you and hear your
wisdom!
1Ki 10:9 Blessed be the LORD your God, who has delighted in you and set you on the throne of Israel! Because
the LORD loved Israel forever, he has made you king, that you may execute justice and righteousness."
1Ki 10:10 Then she gave the king 120 talents of gold, and a very great quantity of spices and precious stones.
Never again came such an abundance of spices as these that the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon.
1Ki 10:11 Moreover, the fleet of Hiram, which brought gold from Ophir, brought from Ophir a very great amount
of almug wood and precious stones.
1Ki 10:12 And the king made of the almug wood supports for the house of the LORD and for the king's house,
also lyres and harps for the singers. No such almug wood has come or been seen to this day.
1Ki 10:13 And King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all that she desired, whatever she asked besides what
was given her by the bounty of King Solomon. So she turned and went back to her own land with her servants.
1Ki 10:14 Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was 666 talents of gold,
1Ki 10:15 besides that which came from the explorers and from the business of the merchants, and from all the
kings of the west and from the governors of the land.
1Ki 10:16 King Solomon made 200 large shields of beaten gold; 600 shekels of gold went into each shield.
1Ki 10:17 And he made 300 shields of beaten gold; three minas of gold went into each shield. And the king put
them in the House of the Forest of Lebanon.
1Ki 10:18 The king also made a great ivory throne and overlaid it with the finest gold.
1Ki 10:19 The throne had six steps, and at the back of the throne was a calf's head, and on each side of the
seat were armrests and two lions standing beside the armrests,
1Ki 10:20 while twelve lions stood there, one on each end of a step on the six steps. The like of it was never
made in any kingdom.
1Ki 10:21 All King Solomon's drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the House of the Forest of
Lebanon were of pure gold. None were of silver; silver was not considered as anything in the days of Solomon.
1Ki 10:22 For the king had a fleet of ships of Tarshish at sea with the fleet of Hiram. Once every three years the
fleet of ships of Tarshish used to come bringing gold, silver, ivory, apes, and peacocks.
1Ki 10:23 Thus King Solomon excelled all the kings of the earth in riches and in wisdom.
1Ki 10:24 And the whole earth sought the presence of Solomon to hear his wisdom, which God had put into his
mind.1Ki 10:25 Every one of them brought his present, articles of silver and gold, garments, myrrh, spices, horses,
and mules, so much year by year.
1Ki 10:26 And Solomon gathered together chariots and horsemen. He had 1,400 chariots and 12,000
horsemen, whom he stationed in the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem.
1Ki 10:27 And the king made silver as common in Jerusalem as stone, and he made cedar as plentiful as the
sycamore of the Shephelah.
1Ki 10:28 And Solomon's import of horses was from Egypt and Kue, and the king's traders received them from
Kue at a price.
1Ki 10:29 A chariot could be imported from Egypt for 600 shekels of silver and a horse for 150, and so through
the king's traders they were exported to all the kings of the Hittites and the kings of Syria.
1Ki 11:1 Now King Solomon loved many foreign women, along with the daughter of Pharaoh: Moabite,
Ammonite, Edomite, Sidonian, and Hittite women,
1Ki 11:2 from the nations concerning which the LORD had said to the people of Israel, "You shall not enter into
marriage with them, neither shall they with you, for surely they will turn away your heart after their gods."
Solomon clung to these in love.
1Ki 11:3 He had 700 wives, princesses, and 300 concubines. And his wives turned away his heart.
1Ki 11:4 For when Solomon was old his wives turned away his heart after other gods, and his heart was not
wholly true to the LORD his God, as was the heart of David his father.
1Ki 11:5 For Solomon went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, and after Milcom the abomination of
the Ammonites.
1Ki 11:6 So Solomon did what was evil in the sight of the LORD and did not wholly follow the LORD, as David
his father had done.
1Ki 11:7 Then Solomon built a high place for Chemosh the abomination of Moab, and for Molech the
abomination of the Ammonites, on the mountain east of Jerusalem.
1Ki 11:8 And so he did for all his foreign wives, who made offerings and sacrificed to their gods.
1Ki 11:9 And the LORD was angry with Solomon, because his heart had turned away from the LORD, the God
of Israel, who had appeared to him twice
1Ki 11:10 and had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not go after other gods. But he did not
keep what the LORD commanded.
1Ki 11:11 Therefore the LORD said to Solomon, "Since this has been your practice and you have not kept my
covenant and my statutes that I have commanded you, I will surely tear the kingdom from you and will give it to
your servant.
1Ki 11:12 Yet for the sake of David your father I will not do it in your days, but I will tear it out of the hand of your
son.
1Ki 11:13 However, I will not tear away all the kingdom, but I will give one tribe to your son, for the sake of
David my servant and for the sake of Jerusalem that I have chosen."
1Ki 11:14 And the LORD raised up an adversary against Solomon, Hadad the Edomite. He was of the royal
house in Edom.
1Ki 11:15 For when David was in Edom, and Joab the commander of the army went up to bury the slain, he
struck down every male in Edom
1Ki 11:16 (for Joab and all Israel remained there six months, until he had cut off every male in Edom).
1Ki 11:17 But Hadad fled to Egypt, together with certain Edomites of his father's servants, Hadad still being a
little child.
1Ki 11:18 They set out from Midian and came to Paran and took men with them from Paran and came to Egypt,
to Pharaoh king of Egypt, who gave him a house and assigned him an allowance of food and gave him land.
1Ki 11:19 And Hadad found great favor in the sight of Pharaoh, so that he gave him in marriage the sister of his
own wife, the sister of Tahpenes the queen.
1Ki 11:20 And the sister of Tahpenes bore him Genubath his son, whom Tahpenes weaned in Pharaoh's house.
And Genubath was in Pharaoh's house among the sons of Pharaoh.
1Ki 11:21 But when Hadad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers and that Joab the commander of the
army was dead, Hadad said to Pharaoh, "Let me depart, that I may go to my own country."
1Ki 11:22 But Pharaoh said to him, "What have you lacked with me that you are now seeking to go to your own
country?" And he said to him, "Only let me depart."
1Ki 11:23 God also raised up as an adversary to him, Rezon the son of Eliada, who had fled from his master
Hadadezer king of Zobah.
1Ki 11:24 And he gathered men about him and became leader of a marauding band, after the killing by David.
And they went to Damascus and lived there and made him king in Damascus.
1Ki 11:25 He was an adversary of Israel all the days of Solomon, doing harm as Hadad did. And he loathed
Israel and reigned over Syria.1Ki 11:26 Jeroboam the son of Nebat, an Ephraimite of Zeredah, a servant of Solomon, whose mother's name
was Zeruah, a widow, also lifted up his hand against the king.
1Ki 11:27 And this was the reason why he lifted up his hand against the king. Solomon built the Millo, and
closed up the breach of the city of David his father.
1Ki 11:28 The man Jeroboam was very able, and when Solomon saw that the young man was industrious he
gave him charge over all the forced labor of the house of Joseph.
1Ki 11:29 And at that time, when Jeroboam went out of Jerusalem, the prophet Ahijah the Shilonite found him
on the road. Now Ahijah had dressed himself in a new garment, and the two of them were alone in the open
country.
1Ki 11:30 Then Ahijah laid hold of the new garment that was on him, and tore it into twelve pieces.
1Ki 11:31 And he said to Jer-oboam, "Take for yourself ten pieces, for thus says the LORD, the God of Israel,
'Behold, I am about to tear the kingdom from the hand of Solomon and will give you ten tribes
1Ki 11:32 (but he shall have one tribe, for the sake of my servant David and for the sake of Jerusalem, the city
that I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel),
1Ki 11:33 because they have forsaken me and worshiped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, Chemosh
the god of Moab, and Milcom the god of the Ammonites, and they have not walked in my ways, doing what is
right in my sight and keeping my statutes and my rules, as David his father did.
1Ki 11:34 Nevertheless, I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand, but I will make him ruler all the days
of his life, for the sake of David my servant whom I chose, who kept my commandments and my statutes.
1Ki 11:35 But I will take the kingdom out of his son's hand and will give it to you, ten tribes.
1Ki 11:36 Yet to his son I will give one tribe, that David my servant may always have a lamp before me in
Jerusalem, the city where I have chosen to put my name.
1Ki 11:37 And I will take you, and you shall reign over all that your soul desires, and you shall be king over
Israel.
1Ki 11:38 And if you will listen to all that I command you, and will walk in my ways, and do what is right in my
eyes by keeping my statutes and my commandments, as David my servant did, I will be with you and will build
you a sure house, as I built for David, and I will give Israel to you.
1Ki 11:39 And I will afflict the offspring of David because of this, but not forever.'"
1Ki 11:40 Solomon sought therefore to kill Jeroboam. But Jeroboam arose and fled into Egypt, to Shishak king
of Egypt, and was in Egypt until the death of Solomon.
1Ki 11:41 Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, and all that he did, and his wisdom, are they not written in the
Book of the Acts of Solomon?
1Ki 11:42 And the time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel was forty years.
1Ki 11:43 And Solomon slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David his father. And Rehoboam his
son reigned in his place.
1Ki 12:1 Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king.
1Ki 12:2 And as soon as Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard of it (for he was still in Egypt, where he had fled from
King Solomon), then Jeroboam returned from Egypt.
1Ki 12:3 And they sent and called him, and Jeroboam and all the assembly of Israel came and said to
Rehoboam,
1Ki 12:4 "Your father made our yoke heavy. Now therefore lighten the hard service of your father and his heavy
yoke on us, and we will serve you."
1Ki 12:5 He said to them, "Go away for three days, then come again to me." So the people went away.
1Ki 12:6 Then King Rehoboam took counsel with the old men, who had stood before Solomon his father while
he was yet alive, saying, "How do you advise me to answer this people?"
1Ki 12:7 And they said to him, "If you will be a servant to this people today and serve them, and speak good
words to them when you answer them, then they will be your servants forever."
1Ki 12:8 But he abandoned the counsel that the old men gave him and took counsel with the young men who
had grown up with him and stood before him.
1Ki 12:9 And he said to them, "What do you advise that we answer this people who have said to me, 'Lighten
the yoke that your father put on us'?"
1Ki 12:10 And the young men who had grown up with him said to him, "Thus shall you speak to this people who
said to you, 'Your father made our yoke heavy, but you lighten it for us,' thus shall you say to them, 'My little
finger is thicker than my father's thighs.
1Ki 12:11 And now, whereas my father laid on you a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke. My father disciplined
you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions.'"
1Ki 12:12 So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day, as the king said, "Come to me
again the third day."
1Ki 12:13 And the king answered the people harshly, and forsaking the counsel that the old men had given him,1Ki 12:14 he spoke to them according to the counsel of the young men, saying, "My father made your yoke
heavy, but I will add to your yoke. My father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions."
1Ki 12:15 So the king did not listen to the people, for it was a turn of affairs brought about by the LORD that he
might fulfill his word, which the LORD spoke by Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
1Ki 12:16 And when all Israel saw that the king did not listen to them, the people answered the king, "What
portion do we have in David? We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse. To your tents, O Israel! Look now to
your own house, David." So Israel went to their tents.
1Ki 12:17 But Rehoboam reigned over the people of Israel who lived in the cities of Judah.
1Ki 12:18 Then King Rehoboam sent Adoram, who was taskmaster over the forced labor, and all Israel stoned
him to death with stones. And King Rehoboam hurried to mount his chariot to flee to Jerusalem.
1Ki 12:19 So Israel has been in rebellion against the house of David to this day.
1Ki 12:20 And when all Israel heard that Jeroboam had returned, they sent and called him to the assembly and
made him king over all Israel. There was none that followed the house of David but the tribe of Judah only.
1Ki 12:21 When Rehoboam came to Jerusalem, he assembled all the house of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin,
180,000 chosen warriors, to fight against the house of Israel, to restore the kingdom to Rehoboam the son of
Solomon.
1Ki 12:22 But the word of God came to Shemaiah the man of God:
1Ki 12:23 "Say to Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all the house of Judah and Benjamin,
and to the rest of the people,
1Ki 12:24 'Thus says the LORD, You shall not go up or fight against your relatives the people of Israel. Every
man return to his home, for this thing is from me.'"So they listened to the word of the LORD and went home
again, according to the word of the LORD.
1Ki 12:25 Then Jeroboam built Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim and lived there. And he went out from
there and built Penuel.
1Ki 12:26 And Jeroboam said in his heart, "Now the kingdom will turn back to the house of David.
1Ki 12:27 If this people go up to offer sacrifices in the temple of the LORD at Jerusalem, then the heart of this
people will turn again to their lord, to Rehoboam king of Judah, and they will kill me and return to Rehoboam king
of Judah."
1Ki 12:28 So the king took counsel and made two calves of gold. And he said to the people, "You have gone up
to Jerusalem long enough. Behold your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt."
1Ki 12:29 And he set one in Bethel, and the other he put in Dan.
1Ki 12:30 Then this thing became a sin, for the people went as far as Dan to be before one.
1Ki 12:31 He also made temples on high places and appointed priests from among all the people, who were not
of the Levites.
1Ki 12:32 And Jeroboam appointed a feast on the fifteenth day of the eighth month like the feast that was in
Judah, and he offered sacrifices on the altar. So he did in Bethel, sacrificing to the calves that he made. And he
placed in Bethel the priests of the high places that he had made.
1Ki 12:33 He went up to the altar that he had made in Bethel on the fifteenth day in the eighth month, in the
month that he had devised from his own heart. And he instituted a feast for the people of Israel and went up to
the altar to make offerings.
1Ki 13:1 And behold, a man of God came out of Judah by the word of the LORD to Bethel. Jeroboam was
standing by the altar to make offerings.
1Ki 13:2 And the man cried against the altar by the word of the LORD and said, "O altar, altar, thus says the
LORD: 'Behold, a son shall be born to the house of David, Josiah by name, and he shall sacrifice on you the
priests of the high places who make offerings on you, and human bones shall be burned on you.'"
1Ki 13:3 And he gave a sign the same day, saying, "This is the sign that the LORD has spoken: 'Behold, the
altar shall be torn down, and the ashes that are on it shall be poured out.'"
1Ki 13:4 And when the king heard the saying of the man of God, which he cried against the altar at Bethel,
Jeroboam stretched out his hand from the altar, saying, "Seize him." And his hand, which he stretched out
against him, dried up, so that he could not draw it back to himself.
1Ki 13:5 The altar also was torn down, and the ashes poured out from the altar, according to the sign that the
man of God had given by the word of the LORD.
1Ki 13:6 And the king said to the man of God, "Entreat now the favor of the LORD your God, and pray for me,
that my hand may be restored to me." And the man of God entreated the LORD, and the king's hand was
restored to him and became as it was before.
1Ki 13:7 And the king said to the man of God, "Come home with me, and refresh yourself, and I will give you a
reward."
1Ki 13:8 And the man of God said to the king, "If you give me half your house, I will not go in with you. And I will
not eat bread or drink water in this place,1Ki 13:9 for so was it commanded me by the word of the LORD, saying, 'You shall neither eat bread nor drink
water nor return by the way that you came.'"
1Ki 13:10 So he went another way and did not return by the way that he came to Bethel.
1Ki 13:11 Now an old prophet lived in Bethel. And his sons came and told him all that the man of God had done
that day in Bethel. They also told to their father the words that he had spoken to the king.
1Ki 13:12 And their father said to them, "Which way did he go?" And his sons showed him the way that the man
of God who came from Judah had gone.
1Ki 13:13 And he said to his sons, "Saddle the donkey for me." So they saddled the donkey for him and he
mounted it.
1Ki 13:14 And he went after the man of God and found him sitting under an oak. And he said to him, "Are you
the man of God who came from Judah?" And he said, "I am."
1Ki 13:15 Then he said to him, "Come home with me and eat bread."
1Ki 13:16 And he said, "I may not return with you, or go in with you, neither will I eat bread nor drink water with
you in this place,
1Ki 13:17 for it was said to me by the word of the LORD, 'You shall neither eat bread nor drink water there, nor
return by the way that you came.'"
1Ki 13:18 And he said to him, "I also am a prophet as you are, and an angel spoke to me by the word of the
LORD, saying, 'Bring him back with you into your house that he may eat bread and drink water.'"But he lied to
him.
1Ki 13:19 So he went back with him and ate bread in his house and drank water.
1Ki 13:20 And as they sat at the table, the word of the LORD came to the prophet who had brought him back.
1Ki 13:21 And he cried to the man of God who came from Judah, "Thus says the LORD, 'Because you have
disobeyed the word of the LORD and have not kept the command that the LORD your God commanded you,
1Ki 13:22 but have come back and have eaten bread and drunk water in the place of which he said to you, "Eat
no bread and drink no water," your body shall not come to the tomb of your fathers.'"
1Ki 13:23 And after he had eaten bread and drunk, he saddled the donkey for the prophet whom he had brought
back.
1Ki 13:24 And as he went away a lion met him on the road and killed him. And his body was thrown in the road,
and the donkey stood beside it; the lion also stood beside the body.
1Ki 13:25 And behold, men passed by and saw the body thrown in the road and the lion standing by the body.
And they came and told it in the city where the old prophet lived.
1Ki 13:26 And when the prophet who had brought him back from the way heard of it, he said, "It is the man of
God who disobeyed the word of the LORD; therefore the LORD has given him to the lion, which has torn him
and killed him, according to the word that the LORD spoke to him."
1Ki 13:27 And he said to his sons, "Saddle the donkey for me." And they saddled it.
1Ki 13:28 And he went and found his body thrown in the road, and the donkey and the lion standing beside the
body. The lion had not eaten the body or torn the donkey.
1Ki 13:29 And the prophet took up the body of the man of God and laid it on the donkey and brought it back to
the city to mourn and to bury him.
1Ki 13:30 And he laid the body in his own grave. And they mourned over him, saying, "Alas, my brother!"
1Ki 13:31 And after he had buried him, he said to his sons, "When I die, bury me in the grave in which the man
of God is buried; lay my bones beside his bones.
1Ki 13:32 For the saying that he called out by the word of the LORD against the altar in Bethel and against all
the houses of the high places that are in the cities of Samaria shall surely come to pass."
1Ki 13:33 After this thing Jeroboam did not turn from his evil way, but made priests for the high places again
from among all the people. Any who would, he ordained to be priests of the high places.
1Ki 13:34 And this thing became sin to the house of Jeroboam, so as to cut it off and to destroy it from the face
of the earth.
1Ki 14:1 At that time Abijah the son of Jeroboam fell sick.
1Ki 14:2 And Jeroboam said to his wife, "Arise, and disguise yourself, that it not be known that you are the wife
of Jeroboam, and go to Shiloh. Behold, Ahijah the prophet is there, who said of me that I should be king over this
people.
1Ki 14:3 Take with you ten loaves, some cakes, and a jar of honey, and go to him. He will tell you what shall
happen to the child."
1Ki 14:4 Jeroboam's wife did so. She arose and went to Shiloh and came to the house of Ahijah. Now Ahijah
could not see, for his eyes were dim because of his age.
1Ki 14:5 And the LORD said to Ahijah, "Behold, the wife of Jeroboam is coming to inquire of you concerning her
son, for he is sick. Thus and thus shall you say to her." When she came, she pretended to be another woman.
1Ki 14:6 But when Ahijah heard the sound of her feet, as she came in at the door, he said, "Come in, wife ofJeroboam. Why do you pretend to be another? For I am charged with unbearable news for you.
1Ki 14:7 Go, tell Jeroboam, 'Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: "Because I exalted you from among the
people and made you leader over my people Israel
1Ki 14:8 and tore the kingdom away from the house of David and gave it to you, and yet you have not been like
my servant David, who kept my commandments and followed me with all his heart, doing only that which was
right in my eyes,
1Ki 14:9 but you have done evil above all who were before you and have gone and made for yourself other
gods and metal images, provoking me to anger, and have cast me behind your back,
1Ki 14:10 therefore behold, I will bring harm upon the house of Jeroboam and will cut off from Jeroboam every
male, both bond and free in Israel, and will burn up the house of Jeroboam, as a man burns up dung until it is all
gone.
1Ki 14:11 Anyone belonging to Jeroboam who dies in the city the dogs shall eat, and anyone who dies in the
open country the birds of the heavens shall eat, for the LORD has spoken it."'
1Ki 14:12 Arise therefore, go to your house. When your feet enter the city, the child shall die.
1Ki 14:13 And all Israel shall mourn for him and bury him, for he only of Jeroboam shall come to the grave,
because in him there is found something pleasing to the LORD, the God of Israel, in the house of Jeroboam.
1Ki 14:14 Moreover, the LORD will raise up for himself a king over Israel who shall cut off the house of
Jeroboam today. And henceforth,
1Ki 14:15 the LORD will strike Israel as a reed is shaken in the water, and root up Israel out of this good land
that he gave to their fathers and scatter them beyond the Euphrates, because they have made their Asherim,
provoking the LORD to anger.
1Ki 14:16 And he will give Israel up because of the sins of Jeroboam, which he sinned and made Israel to sin."
1Ki 14:17 Then Jeroboam's wife arose and departed and came to Tirzah. And as she came to the threshold of
the house, the child died.
1Ki 14:18 And all Israel buried him and mourned for him, according to the word of the LORD, which he spoke by
his servant Ahijah the prophet.
1Ki 14:19 Now the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, how he warred and how he reigned, behold, they are written in
the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel.
1Ki 14:20 And the time that Jeroboam reigned was twenty-two years. And he slept with his fathers, and Nadab
his son reigned in his place.
1Ki 14:21 Now Rehoboam the son of Solomon reigned in Judah. Rehoboam was forty-one years old when he
began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city that the LORD had chosen out of all the
tribes of Israel, to put his name there. His mother's name was Naamah the Ammonite.
1Ki 14:22 And Judah did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, and they provoked him to jealousy with their
sins that they committed, more than all that their fathers had done.
1Ki 14:23 For they also built for themselves high places and pillars and Asherim on every high hill and under
every green tree,
1Ki 14:24 and there were also male cult prostitutes in the land. They did according to all the abominations of the
nations that the LORD drove out before the people of Israel.
1Ki 14:25 In the fifth year of King Re-hoboam, Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem.
1Ki 14:26 He took away the treasures of the house of the LORD and the treasures of the king's house. He took
away everything. He also took away all the shields of gold that Solomon had made,
1Ki 14:27 and King Rehoboam made in their place shields of bronze, and committed them to the hands of the
officers of the guard, who kept the door of the king's house.
1Ki 14:28 And as often as the king went into the house of the LORD, the guard carried them and brought them
back to the guardroom.
1Ki 14:29 Now the rest of the acts of Rehoboam and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the
Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
1Ki 14:30 And there was war between Re-hoboam and Jeroboam continually.
1Ki 14:31 And Rehoboam slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David. His mother's
name was Naamah the Ammonite. And Abijam his son reigned in his place.
1Ki 15:1 Now in the eighteenth year of King Jeroboam the son of Nebat, Abijam began to reign over Judah.
1Ki 15:2 He reigned for three years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Maacah the daughter of Abishalom.
1Ki 15:3 And he walked in all the sins that his father did before him, and his heart was not wholly true to the
LORD his God, as the heart of David his father.
1Ki 15:4 Nevertheless, for David's sake the LORD his God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem, setting up his son
after him, and establishing Jerusalem,
1Ki 15:5 because David did what was right in the eyes of the LORD and did not turn aside from anything that he
commanded him all the days of his life, except in the matter of Uriah the Hittite.1Ki 15:6 Now there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of his life.
1Ki 15:7 The rest of the acts of Abijam and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of
the Kings of Judah? And there was war between Abijam and Jeroboam.
1Ki 15:8 And Abijam slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David. And Asa his son reigned in
his place.
1Ki 15:9 In the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Asa began to reign over Judah,
1Ki 15:10 and he reigned forty-one years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Maacah the daughter of
Abishalom.
1Ki 15:11 And Asa did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, as David his father had done.
1Ki 15:12 He put away the male cult prostitutes out of the land and removed all the idols that his fathers had
made.
1Ki 15:13 He also removed Maacah his mother from being queen mother because she had made an
abominable image for Asherah. And Asa cut down her image and burned it at the brook Kidron.
1Ki 15:14 But the high places were not taken away. Nevertheless, the heart of Asa was wholly true to the LORD
all his days.
1Ki 15:15 And he brought into the house of the LORD the sacred gifts of his father and his own sacred gifts,
silver, and gold, and vessels.
1Ki 15:16 And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days.
1Ki 15:17 Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah and built Ramah, that he might permit no one to go out
or come in to Asa king of Judah.
1Ki 15:18 Then Asa took all the silver and the gold that were left in the treasures of the house of the LORD and
the treasures of the king's house and gave them into the hands of his servants. And King Asa sent them to Benhadad the son of Tabrimmon, the son of Hezion, king of Syria, who lived in Damascus, saying,
1Ki 15:19 "Let there be a covenant between me and you, as there was between my father and your father.
Behold, I am sending to you a present of silver and gold. Go, break your covenant with Baasha king of Israel,
that he may withdraw from me."
1Ki 15:20 And Ben-hadad listened to King Asa and sent the commanders of his armies against the cities of
Israel and conquered Ijon, Dan, Abel-beth-maacah, and all Chin-neroth, with all the land of Naphtali.
1Ki 15:21 And when Baasha heard of it, he stopped building Ramah, and he lived in Tirzah.
1Ki 15:22 Then King Asa made a proclamation to all Judah, none was exempt, and they carried away the
stones of Ramah and its timber, with which Baasha had been building, and with them King Asa built Geba of
Benjamin and Mizpah.
1Ki 15:23 Now the rest of all the acts of Asa, all his might, and all that he did, and the cities that he built, are
they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? But in his old age he was diseased in his
feet.
1Ki 15:24 And Asa slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father, and
Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place.
1Ki 15:25 Nadab the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in the second year of Asa king of Judah, and
he reigned over Israel two years.
1Ki 15:26 He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD and walked in the way of his father, and in his sin which
he made Israel to sin.
1Ki 15:27 Baasha the son of Ahijah, of the house of Issachar, conspired against him. And Baasha struck him
down at Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines, for Nadab and all Israel were laying siege to Gibbethon.
1Ki 15:28 So Baasha killed him in the third year of Asa king of Judah and reigned in his place.
1Ki 15:29 And as soon as he was king, he killed all the house of Jeroboam. He left to the house of Jeroboam
not one that breathed, until he had destroyed it, according to the word of the LORD that he spoke by his servant
Ahijah the Shilonite.
1Ki 15:30 It was for the sins of Jeroboam that he sinned and that he made Israel to sin, and because of the
anger to which he provoked the LORD, the God of Israel.
1Ki 15:31 Now the rest of the acts of Nadab and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the
Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
1Ki 15:32 And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days.
1Ki 15:33 In the third year of Asa king of Judah, Baasha the son of Ahijah began to reign over all Israel at
Tirzah, and he reigned twenty-four years.
1Ki 15:34 He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD and walked in the way of Jeroboam and in his sin which
he made Israel to sin.
1Ki 16:1 And the word of the LORD came to Jehu the son of Hanani against Baasha, saying,
1Ki 16:2 "Since I exalted you out of the dust and made you leader over my people Israel, and you have walked
in the way of Jeroboam and have made my people Israel to sin, provoking me to anger with their sins,1Ki 16:3 behold, I will utterly sweep away Baasha and his house, and I will make your house like the house of
Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
1Ki 16:4 Anyone belonging to Baasha who dies in the city the dogs shall eat, and anyone of his who dies in the
field the birds of the heavens shall eat."
1Ki 16:5 Now the rest of the acts of Baasha and what he did, and his might, are they not written in the Book of
the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
1Ki 16:6 And Baasha slept with his fathers and was buried at Tirzah, and Elah his son reigned in his place.
1Ki 16:7 Moreover, the word of the LORD came by the prophet Jehu the son of Hanani against Baasha and his
house, both because of all the evil that he did in the sight of the LORD, provoking him to anger with the work of
his hands, in being like the house of Jeroboam, and also because he destroyed it.
1Ki 16:8 In the twenty-sixth year of Asa king of Judah, Elah the son of Baasha began to reign over Israel in
Tirzah, and he reigned two years.
1Ki 16:9 But his servant Zimri, commander of half his chariots, conspired against him. When he was at Tirzah,
drinking himself drunk in the house of Arza, who was over the household in Tirzah,
1Ki 16:10 Zimri came in and struck him down and killed him, in the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah,
and reigned in his place.
1Ki 16:11 When he began to reign, as soon as he had seated himself on his throne, he struck down all the
house of Baasha. He did not leave him a single male of his relatives or his friends.
1Ki 16:12 Thus Zimri destroyed all the house of Baasha, according to the word of the LORD, which he spoke
against Baasha by Jehu the prophet,
1Ki 16:13 for all the sins of Baasha and the sins of Elah his son, which they sinned and which they made Israel
to sin, provoking the LORD God of Israel to anger with their idols.
1Ki 16:14 Now the rest of the acts of Elah and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles
of the Kings of Israel?
1Ki 16:15 In the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, Zimri reigned seven days in Tirzah. Now the troops
were encamped against Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines,
1Ki 16:16 and the troops who were encamped heard it said, "Zimri has conspired, and he has killed the king."
Therefore all Israel made Omri, the commander of the army, king over Israel that day in the camp.
1Ki 16:17 So Omri went up from Gibbethon, and all Israel with him, and they besieged Tirzah.
1Ki 16:18 And when Zimri saw that the city was taken, he went into the citadel of the king's house and burned
the king's house over him with fire and died,
1Ki 16:19 because of his sins that he committed, doing evil in the sight of the LORD, walking in the way of
Jeroboam, and for his sin which he committed, making Israel to sin.
1Ki 16:20 Now the rest of the acts of Zimri, and the conspiracy that he made, are they not written in the Book of
the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
1Ki 16:21 Then the people of Israel were divided into two parts. Half of the people followed Tibni the son of
Ginath, to make him king, and half followed Omri.
1Ki 16:22 But the people who followed Omri overcame the people who followed Tibni the son of Ginath. So
Tibni died, and Omri became king.
1Ki 16:23 In the thirty-first year of Asa king of Judah, Omri began to reign over Israel, and he reigned for twelve
years; six years he reigned in Tirzah.
1Ki 16:24 He bought the hill of Samaria from Shemer for two talents of silver, and he fortified the hill and called
the name of the city that he built Samaria, after the name of Shemer, the owner of the hill.
1Ki 16:25 Omri did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, and did more evil than all who were before him.
1Ki 16:26 For he walked in all the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and in the sins that he made Israel to sin,
provoking the LORD, the God of Israel, to anger by their idols.
1Ki 16:27 Now the rest of the acts of Omri that he did, and the might that he showed, are they not written in the
Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
1Ki 16:28 And Omri slept with his fathers and was buried in Samaria, and Ahab his son reigned in his place.
1Ki 16:29 In the thirty-eighth year of Asa king of Judah, Ahab the son of Omri began to reign over Israel, and
Ahab the son of Omri reigned over Israel in Samaria twenty-two years.
1Ki 16:30 And Ahab the son of Omri did evil in the sight of the LORD, more than all who were before him.
1Ki 16:31 And as if it had been a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, he took for
his wife Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal king of the Sidonians, and went and served Baal and worshiped him.
1Ki 16:32 He erected an altar for Baal in the house of Baal, which he built in Samaria.
1Ki 16:33 And Ahab made an Asherah. Ahab did more to provoke the LORD, the God of Israel, to anger than all
the kings of Israel who were before him.
1Ki 16:34 In his days Hiel of Bethel built Jericho. He laid its foundation at the cost of Abiram his firstborn, and
set up its gates at the cost of his youngest son Segub, according to the word of the LORD, which he spoke byJoshua the son of Nun.
1Ki 17:1 Now Elijah the Tishbite, of Tishbe in Gilead, said to Ahab, "As the LORD the God of Israel lives, before
whom I stand, there shall be neither dew nor rain these years, except by my word."
1Ki 17:2 And the word of the LORD came to him,
1Ki 17:3 "Depart from here and turn eastward and hide yourself by the brook Cherith, which is east of the
Jordan.
1Ki 17:4 You shall drink from the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed you there."
1Ki 17:5 So he went and did according to the word of the LORD. He went and lived by the brook Cherith that is
east of the Jordan.
1Ki 17:6 And the ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning, and bread and meat in the evening, and
he drank from the brook.
1Ki 17:7 And after a while the brook dried up, because there was no rain in the land.
1Ki 17:8 Then the word of the LORD came to him,
1Ki 17:9 "Arise, go to Zarephath, which belongs to Sidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow
there to feed you."
1Ki 17:10 So he arose and went to Zarephath. And when he came to the gate of the city, behold, a widow was
there gathering sticks. And he called to her and said, "Bring me a little water in a vessel, that I may drink."
1Ki 17:11 And as she was going to bring it, he called to her and said, "Bring me a morsel of bread in your hand."
1Ki 17:12 And she said, "As the LORD your God lives, I have nothing baked, only a handful of flour in a jar and
a little oil in a jug. And now I am gathering a couple of sticks that I may go in and prepare it for myself and my
son, that we may eat it and die."
1Ki 17:13 And Elijah said to her, "Do not fear; go and do as you have said. But first make me a little cake of it
and bring it to me, and afterward make something for yourself and your son.
1Ki 17:14 For thus says the LORD the God of Israel, 'The jar of flour shall not be spent, and the jug of oil shall
not be empty, until the day that the LORD sends rain upon the earth.'"
1Ki 17:15 And she went and did as Elijah said. And she and he and her household ate for many days.
1Ki 17:16 The jar of flour was not spent, neither did the jug of oil become empty, according to the word of the
LORD that he spoke by Elijah.
1Ki 17:17 After this the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, became ill. And his illness was so severe
that there was no breath left in him.
1Ki 17:18 And she said to Elijah, "What have you against me, O man of God? You have come to me to bring my
sin to remembrance and to cause the death of my son!"
1Ki 17:19 And he said to her, "Give me your son." And he took him from her arms and carried him up into the
upper chamber where he lodged, and laid him on his own bed.
1Ki 17:20 And he cried to the LORD, "O LORD my God, have you brought calamity even upon the widow with
whom I sojourn, by killing her son?"
1Ki 17:21 Then he stretched himself upon the child three times and cried to the LORD, "O LORD my God, let
this child's life come into him again."
1Ki 17:22 And the LORD listened to the voice of Elijah. And the life of the child came into him again, and he
revived.
1Ki 17:23 And Elijah took the child and brought him down from the upper chamber into the house and delivered
him to his mother. And Elijah said, "See, your son lives."
1Ki 17:24 And the woman said to Elijah, "Now I know that you are a man of God, and that the word of the LORD
in your mouth is truth."
1Ki 18:1 After many days the word of the LORD came to Elijah, in the third year, saying, "Go, show yourself to
Ahab, and I will send rain upon the earth."
1Ki 18:2 So Elijah went to show himself to Ahab. Now the famine was severe in Samaria.
1Ki 18:3 And Ahab called Obadiah, who was over the household. (Now Obadiah feared the LORD greatly,
1Ki 18:4 and when Jezebel cut off the prophets of the LORD, Obadiah took a hundred prophets and hid them by
fifties in a cave and fed them with bread and water.)
1Ki 18:5 And Ahab said to Obadiah, "Go through the land to all the springs of water and to all the valleys.
Perhaps we may find grass and save the horses and mules alive, and not lose some of the animals."
1Ki 18:6 So they divided the land between them to pass through it. Ahab went in one direction by himself, and
Obadiah went in another direction by himself.
1Ki 18:7 And as Obadiah was on the way, behold, Elijah met him. And Obadiah recognized him and fell on his
face and said, "Is it you, my lord Elijah?"
1Ki 18:8 And he answered him, "It is I. Go, tell your lord, 'Behold, Elijah is here.'"
1Ki 18:9 And he said, "How have I sinned, that you would give your servant into the hand of Ahab, to kill me?
1Ki 18:10 As the LORD your God lives, there is no nation or kingdom where my lord has not sent to seek you.And when they would say, 'He is not here,' he would take an oath of the kingdom or nation, that they had not
found you.
1Ki 18:11 And now you say, 'Go, tell your lord, "Behold, Elijah is here."'
1Ki 18:12 And as soon as I have gone from you, the Spirit of the LORD will carry you I know not where. And so,
when I come and tell Ahab and he cannot find you, he will kill me, although I your servant have feared the LORD
from my youth.
1Ki 18:13 Has it not been told my lord what I did when Jezebel killed the prophets of the LORD, how I hid a
hundred men of the LORD's prophets by fifties in a cave and fed them with bread and water?
1Ki 18:14 And now you say, 'Go, tell your lord, "Behold, Elijah is here"'; and he will kill me."
1Ki 18:15 And Elijah said, "As the LORD of hosts lives, before whom I stand, I will surely show myself to him
today."
1Ki 18:16 So Obadiah went to meet Ahab, and told him. And Ahab went to meet Elijah.
1Ki 18:17 When Ahab saw Elijah, Ahab said to him, "Is it you, you troubler of Israel?"
1Ki 18:18 And he answered, "I have not troubled Israel, but you have, and your father's house, because you
have abandoned the commandments of the LORD and followed the Baals.
1Ki 18:19 Now therefore send and gather all Israel to me at Mount Carmel, and the 450 prophets of Baal and
the 400 prophets of Asherah, who eat at Jezebel's table."
1Ki 18:20 So Ahab sent to all the people of Israel and gathered the prophets together at Mount Carmel.
1Ki 18:21 And Elijah came near to all the people and said, "How long will you go limping between two different
opinions? If the LORD is God, follow him; but if Baal, then follow him." And the people did not answer him a
word.
1Ki 18:22 Then Elijah said to the people, "I, even I only, am left a prophet of the LORD, but Baal's prophets are
450 men.
1Ki 18:23 Let two bulls be given to us, and let them choose one bull for themselves and cut it in pieces and lay it
on the wood, but put no fire to it. And I will prepare the other bull and lay it on the wood and put no fire to it.
1Ki 18:24 And you call upon the name of your god, and I will call upon the name of the LORD, and the God who
answers by fire, he is God." And all the people answered, "It is well spoken."
1Ki 18:25 Then Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, "Choose for yourselves one bull and prepare it first, for you
are many, and call upon the name of your god, but put no fire to it."
1Ki 18:26 And they took the bull that was given them, and they prepared it and called upon the name of Baal
from morning until noon, saying, "O Baal, answer us!" But there was no voice, and no one answered. And they
limped around the altar that they had made.
1Ki 18:27 And at noon Elijah mocked them, saying, "Cry aloud, for he is a god. Either he is musing, or he is
relieving himself, or he is on a journey, or perhaps he is asleep and must be awakened."
1Ki 18:28 And they cried aloud and cut themselves after their custom with swords and lances, until the blood
gushed out upon them.
1Ki 18:29 And as midday passed, they raved on until the time of the offering of the oblation, but there was no
voice. No one answered; no one paid attention.
1Ki 18:30 Then Elijah said to all the people, "Come near to me." And all the people came near to him. And he
repaired the altar of the LORD that had been thrown down.
1Ki 18:31 Elijah took twelve stones, according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob, to whom the
word of the LORD came, saying, "Israel shall be your name,"
1Ki 18:32 and with the stones he built an altar in the name of the LORD. And he made a trench about the altar,
as great as would contain two seahs of seed.
1Ki 18:33 And he put the wood in order and cut the bull in pieces and laid it on the wood. And he said, "Fill four
jars with water and pour it on the burnt offering and on the wood."
1Ki 18:34 And he said, "Do it a second time." And they did it a second time. And he said, "Do it a third time."
And they did it a third time.
1Ki 18:35 And the water ran around the altar and filled the trench also with water.
1Ki 18:36 And at the time of the offering of the oblation, Elijah the prophet came near and said, "O LORD, God
of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, let it be known this day that you are God in Israel, and that I am your servant, and
that I have done all these things at your word.
1Ki 18:37 Answer me, O LORD, answer me, that this people may know that you, O LORD, are God, and that
you have turned their hearts back."
1Ki 18:38 Then the fire of the LORD fell and consumed the burnt offering and the wood and the stones and the
dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench.
1Ki 18:39 And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces and said, "The LORD, he is God; the LORD, he
is God."
1Ki 18:40 And Elijah said to them, "Seize the prophets of Baal; let not one of them escape." And they seizedthem. And Elijah brought them down to the brook Kishon and slaughtered them there.
1Ki 18:41 And Elijah said to Ahab, "Go up, eat and drink, for there is a sound of the rushing of rain."
1Ki 18:42 So Ahab went up to eat and to drink. And Elijah went up to the top of Mount Carmel. And he bowed
himself down on the earth and put his face between his knees.
1Ki 18:43 And he said to his servant, "Go up now, look toward the sea." And he went up and looked and said,
"There is nothing." And he said, "Go again," seven times.
1Ki 18:44 And at the seventh time he said, "Behold, a little cloud like a man's hand is rising from the sea." And
he said, "Go up, say to Ahab, 'Prepare your chariot and go down, lest the rain stop you.'"
1Ki 18:45 And in a little while the heavens grew black with clouds and wind, and there was a great rain. And
Ahab rode and went to Jezreel.
1Ki 18:46 And the hand of the LORD was on Elijah, and he gathered up his garment and ran before Ahab to the
entrance of Jezreel.
1Ki 19:1 Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and how he had killed all the prophets with the sword.
1Ki 19:2 Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, saying, "So may the gods do to me and more also, if I do not
make your life as the life of one of them by this time tomorrow."
1Ki 19:3 Then he was afraid, and he arose and ran for his life and came to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah,
and left his servant there.
1Ki 19:4 But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a broom tree.
And he asked that he might die, saying, "It is enough; now, O LORD, take away my life, for I am no better than
my fathers."
1Ki 19:5 And he lay down and slept under a broom tree. And behold, an angel touched him and said to him,
"Arise and eat."
1Ki 19:6 And he looked, and behold, there was at his head a cake baked on hot stones and a jar of water. And
he ate and drank and lay down again.
1Ki 19:7 And the angel of the LORD came again a second time and touched him and said, "Arise and eat, for
the journey is too great for you."
1Ki 19:8 And he arose and ate and drank, and went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights to
Horeb, the mount of God.
1Ki 19:9 There he came to a cave and lodged in it. And behold, the word of the LORD came to him, and he said
to him, "What are you doing here, Elijah?"
1Ki 19:10 He said, "I have been very jealous for the LORD, the God of hosts. For the people of Israel have
forsaken your covenant, thrown down your altars, and killed your prophets with the sword, and I, even I only, am
left, and they seek my life, to take it away."
1Ki 19:11 And he said, "Go out and stand on the mount before the LORD." And behold, the LORD passed by,
and a great and strong wind tore the mountains and broke in pieces the rocks before the LORD, but the LORD
was not in the wind. And after the wind an earthquake, but the LORD was not in the earthquake.
1Ki 19:12 And after the earthquake a fire, but the LORD was not in the fire. And after the fire the sound of a low
whisper.
1Ki 19:13 And when Elijah heard it, he wrapped his face in his cloak and went out and stood at the entrance of
the cave. And behold, there came a voice to him and said, "What are you doing here, Elijah?"
1Ki 19:14 He said, "I have been very jealous for the LORD, the God of hosts. For the people of Israel have
forsaken your covenant, thrown down your altars, and killed your prophets with the sword, and I, even I only, am
left, and they seek my life, to take it away."
1Ki 19:15 And the LORD said to him, "Go, return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus. And when you
arrive, you shall anoint Hazael to be king over Syria.
1Ki 19:16 And Jehu the son of Nimshi you shall anoint to be king over Israel, and Elisha the son of Shaphat of
Abel-meholah you shall anoint to be prophet in your place.
1Ki 19:17 And the one who escapes from the sword of Hazael shall Jehu put to death, and the one who
escapes from the sword of Jehu shall Elisha put to death.
1Ki 19:18 Yet I will leave seven thousand in Israel, all the knees that have not bowed to Baal, and every mouth
that has not kissed him."
1Ki 19:19 So he departed from there and found Elisha the son of Shaphat, who was plowing with twelve yoke of
oxen in front of him, and he was with the twelfth. Elijah passed by him and cast his cloak upon him.
1Ki 19:20 And he left the oxen and ran after Elijah and said, "Let me kiss my father and my mother, and then I
will follow you." And he said to him, "Go back again, for what have I done to you?"
1Ki 19:21 And he returned from following him and took the yoke of oxen and sacrificed them and boiled their
flesh with the yokes of the oxen and gave it to the people, and they ate. Then he arose and went after Elijah and
assisted him.
1Ki 20:1 Ben-hadad the king of Syria gathered all his army together. Thirty-two kings were with him, and horsesand chariots. And he went up and closed in on Samaria and fought against it.
1Ki 20:2 And he sent messengers into the city to Ahab king of Israel and said to him, "Thus says Ben-hadad:
1Ki 20:3 'Your silver and your gold are mine; your best wives and children also are mine.'"
1Ki 20:4 And the king of Israel answered, "As you say, my lord, O king, I am yours, and all that I have."
1Ki 20:5 The messengers came again and said, "Thus says Ben-hadad: 'I sent to you, saying, "Deliver to me
your silver and your gold, your wives and your children."
1Ki 20:6 Nevertheless I will send my servants to you tomorrow about this time, and they shall search your house
and the houses of your servants and lay hands on whatever pleases you and take it away.'"
1Ki 20:7 Then the king of Israel called all the elders of the land and said, "Mark, now, and see how this man is
seeking trouble, for he sent to me for my wives and my children, and for my silver and my gold, and I did not
refuse him."
1Ki 20:8 And all the elders and all the people said to him, "Do not listen or consent."
1Ki 20:9 So he said to the messengers of Ben-hadad, "Tell my lord the king, 'All that you first demanded of your
servant I will do, but this thing I cannot do.'"And the messengers departed and brought him word again.
1Ki 20:10 Ben-hadad sent to him and said, "The gods do so to me and more also, if the dust of Samaria shall
suffice for handfuls for all the people who follow me."
1Ki 20:11 And the king of Israel answered, "Tell him, 'Let not him who straps on his armor boast himself like he
who takes it off.'"
1Ki 20:12 When Ben-hadad heard this message as he was drinking with the kings in the booths, he said to his
men, "Take your positions." And they took their positions against the city.
1Ki 20:13 And behold, a prophet came near to Ahab king of Israel and said, "Thus says the LORD, Have you
seen all this great multitude? Behold, I will give it into your hand this day, and you shall know that I am the
LORD."
1Ki 20:14 And Ahab said, "By whom?" He said, "Thus says the LORD, By the servants of the governors of the
districts." Then he said, "Who shall begin the battle?" He answered, "You."
1Ki 20:15 Then he mustered the servants of the governors of the districts, and they were 232. And after them he
mustered all the people of Israel, seven thousand.
1Ki 20:16 And they went out at noon, while Ben-hadad was drinking himself drunk in the booths, he and the
thirty-two kings who helped him.
1Ki 20:17 The servants of the governors of the districts went out first. And Ben-hadad sent out scouts, and they
reported to him, "Men are coming out from Samaria."
1Ki 20:18 He said, "If they have come out for peace, take them alive. Or if they have come out for war, take
them alive."
1Ki 20:19 So these went out of the city, the servants of the governors of the districts and the army that followed
them.
1Ki 20:20 And each struck down his man. The Syrians fled, and Israel pursued them, but Ben-hadad king of
Syria escaped on a horse with horsemen.
1Ki 20:21 And the king of Israel went out and struck the horses and chariots, and struck the Syrians with a great
blow.
1Ki 20:22 Then the prophet came near to the king of Israel and said to him, "Come, strengthen yourself, and
consider well what you have to do, for in the spring the king of Syria will come up against you."
1Ki 20:23 And the servants of the king of Syria said to him, "Their gods are gods of the hills, and so they were
stronger than we. But let us fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they.
1Ki 20:24 And do this: remove the kings, each from his post, and put commanders in their places,
1Ki 20:25 and muster an army like the army that you have lost, horse for horse, and chariot for chariot. Then we
will fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they." And he listened to their voice and
did so.
1Ki 20:26 In the spring, Ben-hadad mustered the Syrians and went up to Aphek to fight against Israel.
1Ki 20:27 And the people of Israel were mustered and were provisioned and went against them. The people of
Israel encamped before them like two little flocks of goats, but the Syrians filled the country.
1Ki 20:28 And a man of God came near and said to the king of Israel, "Thus says the LORD, 'Because the
Syrians have said, "The LORD is a god of the hills but he is not a god of the valleys," therefore I will give all this
great multitude into your hand, and you shall know that I am the LORD.'"
1Ki 20:29 And they encamped opposite one another seven days. Then on the seventh day the battle was
joined. And the people of Israel struck down of the Syrians 100,000 foot soldiers in one day.
1Ki 20:30 And the rest fled into the city of Aphek, and the wall fell upon 27,000 men who were left. Ben-hadad
also fled and entered an inner chamber in the city.
1Ki 20:31 And his servants said to him, "Behold now, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are
merciful kings. Let us put sackcloth around our waists and ropes on our heads and go out to the king of Israel.Perhaps he will spare your life."
1Ki 20:32 So they tied sackcloth around their waists and put ropes on their heads and went to the king of Israel
and said, "Your servant Ben-hadad says, 'Please, let me live.'"And he said, "Does he still live? He is my brother."
1Ki 20:33 Now the men were watching for a sign, and they quickly took it up from him and said, "Yes, your
brother Ben-hadad." Then he said, "Go and bring him." Then Ben-hadad came out to him, and he caused him to
come up into the chariot.
1Ki 20:34 And Ben-hadad said to him, "The cities that my father took from your father I will restore, and you may
establish bazaars for yourself in Damascus, as my father did in Samaria." And Ahab said, "I will let you go on
these terms." So he made a covenant with him and let him go.
1Ki 20:35 And a certain man of the sons of the prophets said to his fellow at the command of the LORD, "Strike
me, please." But the man refused to strike him.
1Ki 20:36 Then he said to him, "Because you have not obeyed the voice of the LORD, behold, as soon as you
have gone from me, a lion shall strike you down." And as soon as he had departed from him, a lion met him and
struck him down.
1Ki 20:37 Then he found another man and said, "Strike me, please." And the man struck him- struck him and
wounded him.
1Ki 20:38 So the prophet departed and waited for the king by the way, disguising himself with a bandage over
his eyes.
1Ki 20:39 And as the king passed, he cried to the king and said, "Your servant went out into the midst of the
battle, and behold, a soldier turned and brought a man to me and said, 'Guard this man; if by any means he is
missing, your life shall be for his life, or else you shall pay a talent of silver.'
1Ki 20:40 And as your servant was busy here and there, he was gone." The king of Israel said to him, "So shall
your judgment be; you yourself have decided it."
1Ki 20:41 Then he hurried to take the bandage away from his eyes, and the king of Israel recognized him as
one of the prophets.
1Ki 20:42 And he said to him, "Thus says the LORD, 'Because you have let go out of your hand the man whom I
had devoted to destruction, therefore your life shall be for his life, and your people for his people.'"
1Ki 20:43 And the king of Israel went to his house vexed and sullen and came to Samaria.
1Ki 21:1 Now Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard in Jezreel, beside the palace of Ahab king of Samaria.
1Ki 21:2 And after this Ahab said to Naboth, "Give me your vineyard, that I may have it for a vegetable garden,
because it is near my house, and I will give you a better vineyard for it; or, if it seems good to you, I will give you
its value in money."
1Ki 21:3 But Naboth said to Ahab, "The LORD forbid that I should give you the inheritance of my fathers."
1Ki 21:4 And Ahab went into his house vexed and sullen because of what Naboth the Jezreelite had said to him,
for he had said, "I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers." And he lay down on his bed and turned away
his face and would eat no food.
1Ki 21:5 But Jezebel his wife came to him and said to him, "Why is your spirit so vexed that you eat no food?"
1Ki 21:6 And he said to her, "Because I spoke to Naboth the Jezreelite and said to him, 'Give me your vineyard
for money, or else, if it please you, I will give you another vineyard for it.' And he answered, 'I will not give you
my vineyard.'"
1Ki 21:7 And Jezebel his wife said to him, "Do you now govern Israel? Arise and eat bread and let your heart be
cheerful; I will give you the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite."
1Ki 21:8 So she wrote letters in Ahab's name and sealed them with his seal, and she sent the letters to the
elders and the leaders who lived with Naboth in his city.
1Ki 21:9 And she wrote in the letters, "Proclaim a fast, and set Naboth at the head of the people.
1Ki 21:10 And set two worthless men opposite him, and let them bring a charge against him, saying, 'You have
cursed God and the king.' Then take him out and stone him to death."
1Ki 21:11 And the men of his city, the elders and the leaders who lived in his city, did as Jezebel had sent word
to them. As it was written in the letters that she had sent to them,
1Ki 21:12 they proclaimed a fast and set Naboth at the head of the people.
1Ki 21:13 And the two worthless men came in and sat opposite him. And the worthless men brought a charge
against Naboth in the presence of the people, saying, "Naboth cursed God and the king." So they took him
outside the city and stoned him to death with stones.
1Ki 21:14 Then they sent to Jezebel, saying, "Naboth has been stoned; he is dead."
1Ki 21:15 As soon as Jezebel heard that Naboth had been stoned and was dead, Jezebel said to Ahab, "Arise,
take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, which he refused to give you for money, for Naboth is
not alive, but dead."
1Ki 21:16 And as soon as Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, Ahab arose to go down to the vineyard of Naboth
the Jezreelite, to take possession of it.1Ki 21:17 Then the word of the LORD came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,
1Ki 21:18 "Arise, go down to meet Ahab king of Israel, who is in Samaria; behold, he is in the vineyard of
Naboth, where he has gone to take possession.
1Ki 21:19 And you shall say to him, 'Thus says the LORD, "Have you killed and also taken possession?"'And
you shall say to him, 'Thus says the LORD: "In the place where dogs licked up the blood of Naboth shall dogs
lick your own blood."'"
1Ki 21:20 Ahab said to Elijah, "Have you found me, O my enemy?" He answered, "I have found you, because
you have sold yourself to do what is evil in the sight of the LORD.
1Ki 21:21 Behold, I will bring disaster upon you. I will utterly burn you up, and will cut off from Ahab every male,
bond or free, in Israel.
1Ki 21:22 And I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of
Baasha the son of Ahijah, for the anger to which you have provoked me, and because you have made Israel to
sin.
1Ki 21:23 And of Jezebel the LORD also said, 'The dogs shall eat Jezebel within the walls of Jezreel.'
1Ki 21:24 Anyone belonging to Ahab who dies in the city the dogs shall eat, and anyone of his who dies in the
open country the birds of the heavens shall eat."
1Ki 21:25 ( There was none who sold himself to do what was evil in the sight of the LORD like Ahab, whom
Jezebel his wife incited.
1Ki 21:26 He acted very abominably in going after idols, as the Amorites had done, whom the LORD cast out
before the people of Israel.)
1Ki 21:27 And when Ahab heard those words, he tore his clothes and put sackcloth on his flesh and fasted and
lay in sackcloth and went about dejectedly.
1Ki 21:28 And the word of the LORD came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,
1Ki 21:29 "Have you seen how Ahab has humbled himself before me? Because he has humbled himself before
me, I will not bring the disaster in his days; but in his son's days I will bring the disaster upon his house."
1Ki 22:1 For three years Syria and Israel continued without war.
1Ki 22:2 But in the third year Jehoshaphat the king of Judah came down to the king of Israel.
1Ki 22:3 And the king of Israel said to his servants, "Do you know that Ramoth-gilead belongs to us, and we
keep quiet and do not take it out of the hand of the king of Syria?"
1Ki 22:4 And he said to Jehoshaphat, "Will you go with me to battle at Ramoth-gilead?" And Jehoshaphat said
to the king of Israel, "I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses."
1Ki 22:5 And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, "Inquire first for the word of the LORD."
1Ki 22:6 Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, about four hundred men, and said to them,
"Shall I go to battle against Ramoth-gilead, or shall I refrain?" And they said, "Go up, for the Lord will give it into
the hand of the king."
1Ki 22:7 But Jehoshaphat said, "Is there not here another prophet of the LORD of whom we may inquire?"
1Ki 22:8 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of the
LORD, Micaiah the son of Imlah, but I hate him, for he never prophesies good concerning me, but evil." And
Jehoshaphat said, "Let not the king say so."
1Ki 22:9 Then the king of Israel summoned an officer and said, "Bring quickly Micaiah the son of Imlah."
1Ki 22:10 Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah were sitting on their thrones, arrayed in
their robes, at the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Samaria, and all the prophets were prophesying
before them.
1Ki 22:11 And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made for himself horns of iron and said, "Thus says the LORD,
'With these you shall push the Syrians until they are destroyed.'"
1Ki 22:12 And all the prophets prophesied so and said, "Go up to Ramoth-gilead and triumph; the LORD will
give it into the hand of the king."
1Ki 22:13 And the messenger who went to summon Micaiah said to him, "Behold, the words of the prophets
with one accord are favorable to the king. Let your word be like the word of one of them, and speak favorably."
1Ki 22:14 But Micaiah said, "As the LORD lives, what the LORD says to me, that I will speak."
1Ki 22:15 And when he had come to the king, the king said to him, "Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to
battle, or shall we refrain?" And he answered him, "Go up and triumph; the LORD will give it into the hand of the
king."
1Ki 22:16 But the king said to him, "How many times shall I make you swear that you speak to me nothing but
the truth in the name of the LORD?"
1Ki 22:17 And he said, "I saw all Israel scattered on the mountains, as sheep that have no shepherd. And the
LORD said, 'These have no master; let each return to his home in peace.'"
1Ki 22:18 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "Did I not tell you that he would not prophesy good
concerning me, but evil?"1Ki 22:19 And Micaiah said, "Therefore hear the word of the LORD: I saw the LORD sitting on his throne, and
all the host of heaven standing beside him on his right hand and on his left;
1Ki 22:20 and the LORD said, 'Who will entice Ahab, that he may go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead?' And one
said one thing, and another said another.
1Ki 22:21 Then a spirit came forward and stood before the LORD, saying, 'I will entice him.'
1Ki 22:22 And the LORD said to him, 'By what means?' And he said, 'I will go out, and will be a lying spirit in the
mouth of all his prophets.' And he said, 'You are to entice him, and you shall succeed; go out and do so.'
1Ki 22:23 Now therefore behold, the LORD has put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these your prophets; the
LORD has declared disaster for you."
1Ki 22:24 Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near and struck Micaiah on the cheek and said, "How did
the Spirit of the LORD go from me to speak to you?"
1Ki 22:25 And Micaiah said, "Behold, you shall see on that day when you go into an inner chamber to hide
yourself."
1Ki 22:26 And the king of Israel said, "Seize Micaiah, and take him back to Amon the governor of the city and to
Joash the king's son,
1Ki 22:27 and say, 'Thus says the king, "Put this fellow in prison and feed him meager rations of bread and
water, until I come in peace."'"
1Ki 22:28 And Micaiah said, "If you return in peace, the LORD has not spoken by me." And he said, "Hear, all
you peoples!"
1Ki 22:29 So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead.
1Ki 22:30 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "I will disguise myself and go into battle, but you wear your
robes." And the king of Israel disguised himself and went into battle.
1Ki 22:31 Now the king of Syria had commanded the thirty-two captains of his chariots, "Fight with neither small
nor great, but only with the king of Israel."
1Ki 22:32 And when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they said, "It is surely the king of Israel." So
they turned to fight against him. And Jehoshaphat cried out.
1Ki 22:33 And when the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back from
pursuing him.
1Ki 22:34 But a certain man drew his bow at random and struck the king of Israel between the scale armor and
the breastplate. Therefore he said to the driver of his chariot, "Turn around and carry me out of the battle, for I
am wounded."
1Ki 22:35 And the battle continued that day, and the king was propped up in his chariot facing the Syrians, until
at evening he died. And the blood of the wound flowed into the bottom of the chariot.
1Ki 22:36 And about sunset a cry went through the army, "Every man to his city, and every man to his country!"
1Ki 22:37 So the king died, and was brought to Samaria. And they buried the king in Samaria.
1Ki 22:38 And they washed the chariot by the pool of Samaria, and the dogs licked up his blood, and the
prostitutes washed themselves in it, according to the word of the LORD that he had spoken.
1Ki 22:39 Now the rest of the acts of Ahab and all that he did, and the ivory house that he built and all the cities
that he built, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
1Ki 22:40 So Ahab slept with his fathers, and Ahaziah his son reigned in his place.
1Ki 22:41 Jehoshaphat the son of Asa began to reign over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel.
1Ki 22:42 Jehoshaphat was thirty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-five years in
Jerusalem. His mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.
1Ki 22:43 He walked in all the way of Asa his father. He did not turn aside from it, doing what was right in the
sight of the LORD. Yet the high places were not taken away, and the people still sacrificed and made offerings
on the high places.
1Ki 22:44 Jehoshaphat also made peace with the king of Israel.
1Ki 22:45 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, and his might that he showed, and how he warred, are they
not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
1Ki 22:46 And from the land he exterminated the remnant of the male cult prostitutes who remained in the days
of his father Asa.
1Ki 22:47 There was no king in Edom; a deputy was king.
1Ki 22:48 Jehoshaphat made ships of Tarshish to go to Ophir for gold, but they did not go, for the ships were
wrecked at Ezion-geber.
1Ki 22:49 Then Ahaziah the son of Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, "Let my servants go with your servants in the
ships," but Jehoshaphat was not willing.
1Ki 22:50 And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father,
and Jehoram his son reigned in his place.
1Ki 22:51 Ahaziah the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria in the seventeenth year ofJehoshaphat king of Judah, and he reigned two years over Israel.
1Ki 22:52 He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD and walked in the way of his father and in the way of his
mother and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin.
1Ki 22:53 He served Baal and worshiped him and provoked the LORD, the God of Israel, to anger in every way
that his father had done.
2Ki 1:1 After the death of Ahab, Moab rebelled against Israel.
2Ki 1:2 Now Ahaziah fell through the lattice in his upper chamber in Samaria, and lay sick; so he sent
messengers, telling them, "Go, inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron, whether I shall recover from this
sickness."
2Ki 1:3 But the angel of the LORD said to Elijah the Tishbite, "Arise, go up to meet the messengers of the king
of Samaria, and say to them, 'Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are going to inquire of Baal-zebub,
the god of Ekron?
2Ki 1:4 Now therefore thus says the LORD, You shall not come down from the bed to which you have gone up,
but you shall surely die.'"So Elijah went.
2Ki 1:5 The messengers returned to the king, and he said to them, "Why have you returned?"
2Ki 1:6 And they said to him, "There came a man to meet us, and said to us, 'Go back to the king who sent you,
and say to him, Thus says the LORD, Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are sending to inquire of
Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron? Therefore you shall not come down from the bed to which you have gone up, but
you shall surely die.'"
2Ki 1:7 He said to them, "What kind of man was he who came to meet you and told you these things?"
2Ki 1:8 They answered him, "He wore a garment of hair, with a belt of leather about his waist." And he said, "It
is Elijah the Tishbite."
2Ki 1:9 Then the king sent to him a captain of fifty men with his fifty. He went up to Elijah, who was sitting on the
top of a hill, and said to him, "O man of God, the king says, 'Come down.'"
2Ki 1:10 But Elijah answered the captain of fifty, "If I am a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and
consume you and your fifty." Then fire came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty.
2Ki 1:11 Again the king sent to him another captain of fifty men with his fifty. And he answered and said to him,
"O man of God, this is the king's order, 'Come down quickly!'"
2Ki 1:12 But Elijah answered them, "If I am a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you
and your fifty." Then the fire of God came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty.
2Ki 1:13 Again the king sent the captain of a third fifty with his fifty. And the third captain of fifty went up and
came and fell on his knees before Elijah and entreated him, "O man of God, please let my life, and the life of
these fifty servants of yours, be precious in your sight.
2Ki 1:14 Behold, fire came down from heaven and consumed the two former captains of fifty men with their
fifties, but now let my life be precious in your sight."
2Ki 1:15 Then the angel of the LORD said to Elijah, "Go down with him; do not be afraid of him." So he arose
and went down with him to the king
2Ki 1:16 and said to him, "Thus says the LORD, 'Because you have sent messengers to inquire of Baal-zebub,
the god of Ekron- is it because there is no God in Israel to inquire of his word?- therefore you shall not come
down from the bed to which you have gone up, but you shall surely die.'"
2Ki 1:17 So he died according to the word of the LORD that Elijah had spoken. Jehoram became king in his
place in the second year of Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, because Ahaziah had no son.
2Ki 1:18 Now the rest of the acts of Ahaziah that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the
Kings of Israel?
2Ki 2:1 Now when the LORD was about to take Elijah up to heaven by a whirlwind, Elijah and Elisha were on
their way from Gilgal.
2Ki 2:2 And Elijah said to Elisha, "Please stay here, for the LORD has sent me as far as Bethel." But Elisha
said, "As the LORD lives, and as you yourself live, I will not leave you." So they went down to Bethel.
2Ki 2:3 And the sons of the prophets who were in Bethel came out to Elisha and said to him, "Do you know that
today the LORD will take away your master from over you?" And he said, "Yes, I know it; keep quiet."
2Ki 2:4 Elijah said to him, "Elisha, please stay here, for the LORD has sent me to Jericho." But he said, "As the
LORD lives, and as you yourself live, I will not leave you." So they came to Jericho.
2Ki 2:5 The sons of the prophets who were at Jericho drew near to Elisha and said to him, "Do you know that
today the LORD will take away your master from over you?" And he answered, "Yes, I know it; keep quiet."
2Ki 2:6 Then Elijah said to him, "Please stay here, for the LORD has sent me to the Jordan." But he said, "As
the LORD lives, and as you yourself live, I will not leave you." So the two of them went on.
2Ki 2:7 Fifty men of the sons of the prophets also went and stood at some distance from them, as they both
were standing by the Jordan.
2Ki 2:8 Then Elijah took his cloak and rolled it up and struck the water, and the water was parted to the one sideand to the other, till the two of them could go over on dry ground.
2Ki 2:9 When they had crossed, Elijah said to Elisha, "Ask what I shall do for you, before I am taken from you."
And Elisha said, "Please let there be a double portion of your spirit on me."
2Ki 2:10 And he said, "You have asked a hard thing; yet, if you see me as I am being taken from you, it shall be
so for you, but if you do not see me, it shall not be so."
2Ki 2:11 And as they still went on and talked, behold, chariots of fire and horses of fire separated the two of
them. And Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven.
2Ki 2:12 And Elisha saw it and he cried, "My father, my father! The chariots of Israel and its horsemen!" And he
saw him no more. Then he took hold of his own clothes and tore them in two pieces.
2Ki 2:13 And he took up the cloak of Elijah that had fallen from him and went back and stood on the bank of the
Jordan.
2Ki 2:14 Then he took the cloak of Elijah that had fallen from him and struck the water, saying, "Where is the
LORD, the God of Elijah?" And when he had struck the water, the water was parted to the one side and to the
other, and Elisha went over.
2Ki 2:15 Now when the sons of the prophets who were at Jericho saw him opposite them, they said, "The spirit
of Elijah rests on Elisha." And they came to meet him and bowed to the ground before him.
2Ki 2:16 And they said to him, "Behold now, there are with your servants fifty strong men. Please let them go
and seek your master. It may be that the Spirit of the LORD has caught him up and cast him upon some
mountain or into some valley." And he said, "You shall not send."
2Ki 2:17 But when they urged him till he was ashamed, he said, "Send." They sent therefore fifty men. And for
three days they sought him but did not find him.
2Ki 2:18 And they came back to him while he was staying at Jericho, and he said to them, "Did I not say to you,
'Do not go'?"
2Ki 2:19 Now the men of the city said to Elisha, "Behold, the situation of this city is pleasant, as my lord sees,
but the water is bad, and the land is unfruitful."
2Ki 2:20 He said, "Bring me a new bowl, and put salt in it." So they brought it to him.
2Ki 2:21 Then he went to the spring of water and threw salt in it and said, "Thus says the LORD, I have healed
this water; from now on neither death nor miscarriage shall come from it."
2Ki 2:22 So the water has been healed to this day, according to the word that Elisha spoke.
2Ki 2:23 He went up from there to Bethel, and while he was going up on the way, some small boys came out of
the city and jeered at him, saying, "Go up, you baldhead! Go up, you baldhead!"
2Ki 2:24 And he turned around, and when he saw them, he cursed them in the name of the LORD. And two
she-bears came out of the woods and tore forty-two of the boys.
2Ki 2:25 From there he went on to Mount Carmel, and from there he returned to Samaria.
2Ki 3:1 In the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, Jehoram the son of Ahab became king over Israel
in Samaria, and he reigned twelve years.
2Ki 3:2 He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, though not like his father and mother, for he put away the
pillar of Baal that his father had made.
2Ki 3:3 Nevertheless, he clung to the sin of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel to sin; he did not
depart from it.
2Ki 3:4 Now Mesha king of Moab was a sheep breeder, and he had to deliver to the king of Israel 100,000
lambs and the wool of 100,000 rams.
2Ki 3:5 But when Ahab died, the king of Moab rebelled against the king of Israel.
2Ki 3:6 So King Jehoram marched out of Samaria at that time and mustered all Israel.
2Ki 3:7 And he went and sent word to Jehoshaphat king of Judah, "The king of Moab has rebelled against me.
Will you go with me to battle against Moab?" And he said, "I will go. I am as you are, my people as your people,
my horses as your horses."
2Ki 3:8 Then he said, "By which way shall we march?" Jehoram answered, "By the way of the wilderness of
Edom."
2Ki 3:9 So the king of Israel went with the king of Judah and the king of Edom. And when they had made a
circuitous march of seven days, there was no water for the army or for the animals that followed them.
2Ki 3:10 Then the king of Israel said, "Alas! The LORD has called these three kings to give them into the hand
of Moab."
2Ki 3:11 And Jehoshaphat said, "Is there no prophet of the LORD here, through whom we may inquire of the
LORD?" Then one of the king of Israel's servants answered, "Elisha the son of Shaphat is here, who poured
water on the hands of Elijah."
2Ki 3:12 And Jehoshaphat said, "The word of the LORD is with him." So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat and
the king of Edom went down to him.
2Ki 3:13 And Elisha said to the king of Israel, "What have I to do with you? Go to the prophets of your father andto the prophets of your mother." But the king of Israel said to him, "No; it is the LORD who has called these three
kings to give them into the hand of Moab."
2Ki 3:14 And Elisha said, "As the LORD of hosts lives, before whom I stand, were it not that I have regard for
Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, I would neither look at you nor see you.
2Ki 3:15 But now bring me a musician." And when the musician played, the hand of the LORD came upon him.
2Ki 3:16 And he said, "Thus says the LORD, 'I will make this dry streambed full of pools.'
2Ki 3:17 For thus says the LORD, 'You shall not see wind or rain, but that streambed shall be filled with water,
so that you shall drink, you, your livestock, and your animals.'
2Ki 3:18 This is a light thing in the sight of the LORD. He will also give the Moabites into your hand,
2Ki 3:19 and you shall attack every fortified city and every choice city, and shall fell every good tree and stop up
all springs of water and ruin every good piece of land with stones."
2Ki 3:20 The next morning, about the time of offering the sacrifice, behold, water came from the direction of
Edom, till the country was filled with water.
2Ki 3:21 When all the Moabites heard that the kings had come up to fight against them, all who were able to put
on armor, from the youngest to the oldest, were called out and were drawn up at the border.
2Ki 3:22 And when they rose early in the morning and the sun shone on the water, the Moabites saw the water
opposite them as red as blood.
2Ki 3:23 And they said, "This is blood; the kings have surely fought together and struck one another down. Now
then, Moab, to the spoil!"
2Ki 3:24 But when they came to the camp of Israel, the Israelites rose and struck the Moabites, till they fled
before them. And they went forward, striking the Moabites as they went.
2Ki 3:25 And they overthrew the cities, and on every good piece of land every man threw a stone until it was
covered. They stopped every spring of water and felled all the good trees, till only its stones were left in Kirhareseth, and the slingers surrounded and attacked it.
2Ki 3:26 When the king of Moab saw that the battle was going against him, he took with him 700 swordsmen to
break through, opposite the king of Edom, but they could not.
2Ki 3:27 Then he took his oldest son who was to reign in his place and offered him for a burnt offering on the
wall. And there came great wrath against Israel. And they withdrew from him and returned to their own land.
2Ki 4:1 Now the wife of one of the sons of the prophets cried to Elisha, "Your servant my husband is dead, and
you know that your servant feared the LORD, but the creditor has come to take my two children to be his
slaves."
2Ki 4:2 And Elisha said to her, "What shall I do for you? Tell me; what have you in the house?" And she said,
"Your servant has nothing in the house except a jar of oil."
2Ki 4:3 Then he said, "Go outside, borrow vessels from all your neighbors, empty vessels and not too few.
2Ki 4:4 Then go in and shut the door behind yourself and your sons and pour into all these vessels. And when
one is full, set it aside."
2Ki 4:5 So she went from him and shut the door behind herself and her sons. And as she poured they brought
the vessels to her.
2Ki 4:6 When the vessels were full, she said to her son, "Bring me another vessel." And he said to her, "There is
not another." Then the oil stopped flowing.
2Ki 4:7 She came and told the man of God, and he said, "Go, sell the oil and pay your debts, and you and your
sons can live on the rest."
2Ki 4:8 One day Elisha went on to Shunem, where a wealthy woman lived, who urged him to eat some food. So
whenever he passed that way, he would turn in there to eat food.
2Ki 4:9 And she said to her husband, "Behold now, I know that this is a holy man of God who is continually
passing our way.
2Ki 4:10 Let us make a small room on the roof with walls and put there for him a bed, a table, a chair, and a
lamp, so that whenever he comes to us, he can go in there."
2Ki 4:11 One day he came there, and he turned into the chamber and rested there.
2Ki 4:12 And he said to Gehazi his servant, "Call this Shunammite." When he had called her, she stood before
him.
2Ki 4:13 And he said to him, "Say now to her, 'See, you have taken all this trouble for us; what is to be done for
you? Would you have a word spoken on your behalf to the king or to the commander of the army?'"She
answered, "I dwell among my own people."
2Ki 4:14 And he said, "What then is to be done for her?" Gehazi answered, "Well, she has no son, and her
husband is old."
2Ki 4:15 He said, "Call her." And when he had called her, she stood in the doorway.
2Ki 4:16 And he said, "At this season, about this time next year, you shall embrace a son." And she said, "No,
my lord, O man of God; do not lie to your servant."2Ki 4:17 But the woman conceived, and she bore a son about that time the following spring, as Elisha had said
to her.
2Ki 4:18 When the child had grown, he went out one day to his father among the reapers.
2Ki 4:19 And he said to his father, "Oh, my head, my head!" The father said to his servant, "Carry him to his
mother."
2Ki 4:20 And when he had lifted him and brought him to his mother, the child sat on her lap till noon, and then
he died.
2Ki 4:21 And she went up and laid him on the bed of the man of God and shut the door behind him and went
out.
2Ki 4:22 Then she called to her husband and said, "Send me one of the servants and one of the donkeys, that I
may quickly go to the man of God and come back again."
2Ki 4:23 And he said, "Why will you go to him today? It is neither new moon nor Sabbath." She said, "All is
well."
2Ki 4:24 Then she saddled the donkey, and she said to her servant, "Urge the animal on; do not slacken the
pace for me unless I tell you."
2Ki 4:25 So she set out and came to the man of God at Mount Carmel. When the man of God saw her coming,
he said to Gehazi his servant, "Look, there is the Shunammite.
2Ki 4:26 Run at once to meet her and say to her, 'Is all well with you? Is all well with your husband? Is all well
with the child?'"And she answered, "All is well."
2Ki 4:27 And when she came to the mountain to the man of God, she caught hold of his feet. And Gehazi came
to push her away. But the man of God said, "Leave her alone, for she is in bitter distress, and the LORD has
hidden it from me and has not told me."
2Ki 4:28 Then she said, "Did I ask my lord for a son? Did I not say, 'Do not deceive me?'"
2Ki 4:29 He said to Gehazi, "Tie up your garment and take my staff in your hand and go. If you meet anyone, do
not greet him, and if anyone greets you, do not reply. And lay my staff on the face of the child."
2Ki 4:30 Then the mother of the child said, "As the LORD lives and as you yourself live, I will not leave you." So
he arose and followed her.
2Ki 4:31 Gehazi went on ahead and laid the staff on the face of the child, but there was no sound or sign of life.
Therefore he returned to meet him and told him, "The child has not awakened."
2Ki 4:32 When Elisha came into the house, he saw the child lying dead on his bed.
2Ki 4:33 So he went in and shut the door behind the two of them and prayed to the LORD.
2Ki 4:34 Then he went up and lay on the child, putting his mouth on his mouth, his eyes on his eyes, and his
hands on his hands. And as he stretched himself upon him, the flesh of the child became warm.
2Ki 4:35 Then he got up again and walked once back and forth in the house, and went up and stretched himself
upon him. The child sneezed seven times, and the child opened his eyes.
2Ki 4:36 Then he summoned Gehazi and said, "Call this Shunammite." So he called her. And when she came to
him, he said, "Pick up your son."
2Ki 4:37 She came and fell at his feet, bowing to the ground. Then she picked up her son and went out.
2Ki 4:38 And Elisha came again to Gilgal when there was a famine in the land. And as the sons of the prophets
were sitting before him, he said to his servant, "Set on the large pot, and boil stew for the sons of the prophets."
2Ki 4:39 One of them went out into the field to gather herbs, and found a wild vine and gathered from it his lap
full of wild gourds, and came and cut them up into the pot of stew, not knowing what they were.
2Ki 4:40 And they poured out some for the men to eat. But while they were eating of the stew, they cried out, "O
man of God, there is death in the pot!" And they could not eat it.
2Ki 4:41 He said, "Then bring flour." And he threw it into the pot and said, "Pour some out for the men, that they
may eat." And there was no harm in the pot.
2Ki 4:42 A man came from Baal-shalishah, bringing the man of God bread of the firstfruits, twenty loaves of
barley and fresh ears of grain in his sack. And Elisha said, "Give to the men, that they may eat."
2Ki 4:43 But his servant said, "How can I set this before a hundred men?" So he repeated, "Give them to the
men, that they may eat, for thus says the LORD, 'They shall eat and have some left.'"
2Ki 4:44 So he set it before them. And they ate and had some left, according to the word of the LORD.
2Ki 5:1 Naaman, commander of the army of the king of Syria, was a great man with his master and in high
favor, because by him the LORD had given victory to Syria. He was a mighty man of valor, but he was a leper.
2Ki 5:2 Now the Syrians on one of their raids had carried off a little girl from the land of Israel, and she worked in
the service of Naaman's wife.
2Ki 5:3 She said to her mistress, "Would that my lord were with the prophet who is in Samaria! He would cure
him of his leprosy."
2Ki 5:4 So Naaman went in and told his lord, "Thus and so spoke the girl from the land of Israel."
2Ki 5:5 And the king of Syria said, "Go now, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel." So he went, taking withhim ten talents of silver, six thousand shekels of gold, and ten changes of clothes.
2Ki 5:6 And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, which read, "When this letter reaches you, know that I
have sent to you Naaman my servant, that you may cure him of his leprosy."
2Ki 5:7 And when the king of Israel read the letter, he tore his clothes and said, "Am I God, to kill and to make
alive, that this man sends word to me to cure a man of his leprosy? Only consider, and see how he is seeking a
quarrel with me."
2Ki 5:8 But when Elisha the man of God heard that the king of Israel had torn his clothes, he sent to the king,
saying, "Why have you torn your clothes? Let him come now to me, that he may know that there is a prophet in
Israel."
2Ki 5:9 So Naaman came with his horses and chariots and stood at the door of Elisha's house.
2Ki 5:10 And Elisha sent a messenger to him, saying, "Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and your flesh
shall be restored, and you shall be clean."
2Ki 5:11 But Naaman was angry and went away, saying, "Behold, I thought that he would surely come out to me
and stand and call upon the name of the LORD his God, and wave his hand over the place and cure the leper.
2Ki 5:12 Are not Abana and Pharpar, the rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? Could I not
wash in them and be clean?" So he turned and went away in a rage.
2Ki 5:13 But his servants came near and said to him, "My father, it is a great word the prophet has spoken to
you; will you not do it? Has he actually said to you, 'Wash, and be clean'?"
2Ki 5:14 So he went down and dipped himself seven times in the Jordan, according to the word of the man of
God, and his flesh was restored like the flesh of a little child, and he was clean.
2Ki 5:15 Then he returned to the man of God, he and all his company, and he came and stood before him. And
he said, "Behold, I know that there is no God in all the earth but in Israel; so accept now a present from your
servant."
2Ki 5:16 But he said, "As the LORD lives, before whom I stand, I will receive none." And he urged him to take it,
but he refused.
2Ki 5:17 Then Naaman said, "If not, please let there be given to your servant two mules' load of earth, for from
now on your servant will not offer burnt offering or sacrifice to any god but the LORD.
2Ki 5:18 In this matter may the LORD pardon your servant: when my master goes into the house of Rimmon to
worship there, leaning on my arm, and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, when I bow myself in the house of
Rimmon, the LORD pardon your servant in this matter."
2Ki 5:19 He said to him, "Go in peace." But when Naaman had gone from him a short distance,
2Ki 5:20 Gehazi, the servant of Elisha the man of God, said, "See, my master has spared this Naaman the
Syrian, in not accepting from his hand what he brought. As the LORD lives, I will run after him and get something
from him."
2Ki 5:21 So Gehazi followed Naaman. And when Naaman saw someone running after him, he got down from
the chariot to meet him and said, "Is all well?"
2Ki 5:22 And he said, "All is well. My master has sent me to say, 'There have just now come to me from the hill
country of Ephraim two young men of the sons of the prophets. Please give them a talent of silver and two festal
garments.'"
2Ki 5:23 And Naaman said, "Be pleased to accept two talents." And he urged him and tied up two talents of
silver in two bags, with two festal garments, and laid them on two of his servants. And they carried them before
Gehazi.
2Ki 5:24 And when he came to the hill, he took them from their hand and put them in the house, and he sent the
men away, and they departed.
2Ki 5:25 He went in and stood before his master, and Elisha said to him, "Where have you been, Gehazi?" And
he said, "Your servant went nowhere."
2Ki 5:26 But he said to him, "Did not my heart go when the man turned from his chariot to meet you? Was it a
time to accept money and garments, olive orchards and vineyards, sheep and oxen, male servants and female
servants?
2Ki 5:27 Therefore the leprosy of Naaman shall cling to you and to your descendants forever." So he went out
from his presence a leper, like snow.
2Ki 6:1 Now the sons of the prophets said to Elisha, "See, the place where we dwell under your charge is too
small for us.
2Ki 6:2 Let us go to the Jordan and each of us get there a log, and let us make a place for us to dwell there."
And he answered, "Go."
2Ki 6:3 Then one of them said, "Be pleased to go with your servants." And he answered, "I will go."
2Ki 6:4 So he went with them. And when they came to the Jordan, they cut down trees.
2Ki 6:5 But as one was felling a log, his axe head fell into the water, and he cried out, "Alas, my master! It was
borrowed."2Ki 6:6 Then the man of God said, "Where did it fall?" When he showed him the place, he cut off a stick and
threw it in there and made the iron float.
2Ki 6:7 And he said, "Take it up." So he reached out his hand and took it.
2Ki 6:8 Once when the king of Syria was warring against Israel, he took counsel with his servants, saying, "At
such and such a place shall be my camp."
2Ki 6:9 But the man of God sent word to the king of Israel, "Beware that you do not pass this place, for the
Syrians are going down there."
2Ki 6:10 And the king of Israel sent to the place about which the man of God told him. Thus he used to warn
him, so that he saved himself there more than once or twice.
2Ki 6:11 And the mind of the king of Syria was greatly troubled because of this thing, and he called his servants
and said to them, "Will you not show me who of us is for the king of Israel?"
2Ki 6:12 And one of his servants said, "None, my lord, O king; but Elisha, the prophet who is in Israel, tells the
king of Israel the words that you speak in your bedroom."
2Ki 6:13 And he said, "Go and see where he is, that I may send and seize him." It was told him, "Behold, he is in
Dothan."
2Ki 6:14 So he sent there horses and chariots and a great army, and they came by night and surrounded the
city.
2Ki 6:15 When the servant of the man of God rose early in the morning and went out, behold, an army with
horses and chariots was all around the city. And the servant said, "Alas, my master! What shall we do?"
2Ki 6:16 He said, "Do not be afraid, for those who are with us are more than those who are with them."
2Ki 6:17 Then Elisha prayed and said, "O LORD, please open his eyes that he may see." So the LORD opened
the eyes of the young man, and he saw, and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire all
around Elisha.
2Ki 6:18 And when the Syrians came down against him, Elisha prayed to the LORD and said, "Please strike this
people with blindness." So he struck them with blindness in accordance with the prayer of Elisha.
2Ki 6:19 And Elisha said to them, "This is not the way, and this is not the city. Follow me, and I will bring you to
the man whom you seek." And he led them to Samaria.
2Ki 6:20 As soon as they entered Samaria, Elisha said, "O LORD, open the eyes of these men, that they may
see." So the LORD opened their eyes and they saw, and behold, they were in the midst of Samaria.
2Ki 6:21 As soon as the king of Israel saw them, he said to Elisha, "My father, shall I strike them down? Shall I
strike them down?"
2Ki 6:22 He answered, "You shall not strike them down. Would you strike down those whom you have taken
captive with your sword and with your bow? Set bread and water before them, that they may eat and drink and
go to their master."
2Ki 6:23 So he prepared for them a great feast, and when they had eaten and drunk, he sent them away, and
they went to their master. And the Syrians did not come again on raids into the land of Israel.
2Ki 6:24 Afterward Ben-hadad king of Syria mustered his entire army and went up and besieged Samaria.
2Ki 6:25 And there was a great famine in Samaria, as they besieged it, until a donkey's head was sold for eighty
shekels of silver, and the fourth part of a kab of dove's dung for five shekels of silver.
2Ki 6:26 Now as the king of Israel was passing by on the wall, a woman cried out to him, saying, "Help, my lord,
O king!"
2Ki 6:27 And he said, "If the LORD will not help you, how shall I help you? From the threshing floor, or from the
winepress?"
2Ki 6:28 And the king asked her, "What is your trouble?" She answered, "This woman said to me, 'Give your
son, that we may eat him today, and we will eat my son tomorrow.'
2Ki 6:29 So we boiled my son and ate him. And on the next day I said to her, 'Give your son, that we may eat
him.' But she has hidden her son."
2Ki 6:30 When the king heard the words of the woman, he tore his clothes- now he was passing by on the walland the people looked, and behold, he had sackcloth beneath on his body-
2Ki 6:31 and he said, "May God do so to me and more also, if the head of Elisha the son of Shaphat remains on
his shoulders today."
2Ki 6:32 Elisha was sitting in his house, and the elders were sitting with him. Now the king had dispatched a
man from his presence, but before the messenger arrived Elisha said to the elders, "Do you see how this
murderer has sent to take off my head? Look, when the messenger comes, shut the door and hold the door fast
against him. Is not the sound of his master's feet behind him?"
2Ki 6:33 And while he was still speaking with them, the messenger came down to him and said, "This trouble is
from the LORD! Why should I wait for the LORD any longer?"
2Ki 7:1 But Elisha said, "Hear the word of the LORD: thus says the LORD, Tomorrow about this time a seah of
fine flour shall be sold for a shekel, and two seahs of barley for a shekel, at the gate of Samaria."2Ki 7:2 Then the captain on whose hand the king leaned said to the man of God, "If the LORD himself should
make windows in heaven, could this thing be?" But he said, "You shall see it with your own eyes, but you shall
not eat of it."
2Ki 7:3 Now there were four men who were lepers at the entrance to the gate. And they said to one another,
"Why are we sitting here until we die?
2Ki 7:4 If we say, 'Let us enter the city,' the famine is in the city, and we shall die there. And if we sit here, we
die also. So now come, let us go over to the camp of the Syrians. If they spare our lives we shall live, and if they
kill us we shall but die."
2Ki 7:5 So they arose at twilight to go to the camp of the Syrians. But when they came to the edge of the camp
of the Syrians, behold, there was no one there.
2Ki 7:6 For the Lord had made the army of the Syrians hear the sound of chariots and of horses, the sound of a
great army, so that they said to one another, "Behold, the king of Israel has hired against us the kings of the
Hittites and the kings of Egypt to come against us."
2Ki 7:7 So they fled away in the twilight and abandoned their tents, their horses, and their donkeys, leaving the
camp as it was, and fled for their lives.
2Ki 7:8 And when these lepers came to the edge of the camp, they went into a tent and ate and drank, and they
carried off silver and gold and clothing and went and hid them. Then they came back and entered another tent
and carried off things from it and went and hid them.
2Ki 7:9 Then they said to one another, "We are not doing right. This day is a day of good news. If we are silent
and wait until the morning light, punishment will overtake us. Now therefore come; let us go and tell the king's
household."
2Ki 7:10 So they came and called to the gatekeepers of the city and told them, "We came to the camp of the
Syrians, and behold, there was no one to be seen or heard there, nothing but the horses tied and the donkeys
tied and the tents as they were."
2Ki 7:11 Then the gatekeepers called out, and it was told within the king's household.
2Ki 7:12 And the king rose in the night and said to his servants, "I will tell you what the Syrians have done to us.
They know that we are hungry. Therefore they have gone out of the camp to hide themselves in the open
country, thinking, 'When they come out of the city, we shall take them alive and get into the city.'"
2Ki 7:13 And one of his servants said, "Let some men take five of the remaining horses, seeing that those who
are left here will fare like the whole multitude of Israel who have already perished. Let us send and see."
2Ki 7:14 So they took two horsemen, and the king sent them after the army of the Syrians, saying, "Go and
see."
2Ki 7:15 So they went after them as far as the Jordan, and behold, all the way was littered with garments and
equipment that the Syrians had thrown away in their haste. And the messengers returned and told the king.
2Ki 7:16 Then the people went out and plundered the camp of the Syrians. So a seah of fine flour was sold for a
shekel, and two seahs of barley for a shekel, according to the word of the LORD.
2Ki 7:17 Now the king had appointed the captain on whose hand he leaned to have charge of the gate. And the
people trampled him in the gate, so that he died, as the man of God had said when the king came down to him.
2Ki 7:18 For when the man of God had said to the king, "Two seahs of barley shall be sold for a shekel, and a
seah of fine flour for a shekel, about this time tomorrow in the gate of Samaria,"
2Ki 7:19 the captain had answered the man of God, "If the LORD himself should make windows in heaven,
could such a thing be?" And he had said, "You shall see it with your own eyes, but you shall not eat of it."
2Ki 7:20 And so it happened to him, for the people trampled him in the gate and he died.
2Ki 8:1 Now Elisha had said to the woman whose son he had restored to life, "Arise, and depart with your
household, and sojourn wherever you can, for the LORD has called for a famine, and it will come upon the land
for seven years."
2Ki 8:2 So the woman arose and did according to the word of the man of God. She went with her household and
sojourned in the land of the Philistines seven years.
2Ki 8:3 And at the end of the seven years, when the woman returned from the land of the Philistines, she went
to appeal to the king for her house and her land.
2Ki 8:4 Now the king was talking with Gehazi the servant of the man of God, saying, "Tell me all the great things
that Elisha has done."
2Ki 8:5 And while he was telling the king how Elisha had restored the dead to life, behold, the woman whose
son he had restored to life appealed to the king for her house and her land. And Gehazi said, "My lord, O king,
here is the woman, and here is her son whom Elisha restored to life."
2Ki 8:6 And when the king asked the woman, she told him. So the king appointed an official for her, saying,
"Restore all that was hers, together with all the produce of the fields from the day that she left the land until now."
2Ki 8:7 Now Elisha came to Damascus. Ben-hadad the king of Syria was sick. And when it was told him, "The
man of God has come here,"2Ki 8:8 the king said to Hazael, "Take a present with you and go to meet the man of God, and inquire of the
LORD through him, saying, 'Shall I recover from this sickness?'"
2Ki 8:9 So Hazael went to meet him, and took a present with him, all kinds of goods of Damascus, forty camel
loads. When he came and stood before him, he said, "Your son Ben-hadad king of Syria has sent me to you,
saying, 'Shall I recover from this sickness?'"
2Ki 8:10 And Elisha said to him, "Go, say to him, 'You shall certainly recover,' but the LORD has shown me that
he shall certainly die."
2Ki 8:11 And he fixed his gaze and stared at him, until he was embarrassed. And the man of God wept.
2Ki 8:12 And Hazael said, "Why does my lord weep?" He answered, "Because I know the evil that you will do to
the people of Israel. You will set on fire their fortresses, and you will kill their young men with the sword and dash
in pieces their little ones and rip open their pregnant women."
2Ki 8:13 And Hazael said, "What is your servant, who is but a dog, that he should do this great thing?" Elisha
answered, "The LORD has shown me that you are to be king over Syria."
2Ki 8:14 Then he departed from Elisha and came to his master, who said to him, "What did Elisha say to you?"
And he answered, "He told me that you would certainly recover."
2Ki 8:15 But the next day he took the bed cloth and dipped it in water and spread it over his face, till he died.
And Hazael became king in his place.
2Ki 8:16 In the fifth year of Joram the son of Ahab, king of Israel, when Jehoshaphat was king of Judah,
Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, began to reign.
2Ki 8:17 He was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem.
2Ki 8:18 And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as the house of Ahab had done, for the daughter of
Ahab was his wife. And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD.
2Ki 8:19 Yet the LORD was not willing to destroy Judah, for the sake of David his servant, since he promised to
give a lamp to him and to his sons forever.
2Ki 8:20 In his days Edom revolted from the rule of Judah and set up a king of their own.
2Ki 8:21 Then Joram passed over to Zair with all his chariots and rose by night, and he and his chariot
commanders struck the Edomites who had surrounded him, but his army fled home.
2Ki 8:22 So Edom revolted from the rule of Judah to this day. Then Libnah revolted at the same time.
2Ki 8:23 Now the rest of the acts of Joram, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles
of the Kings of Judah?
2Ki 8:24 So Joram slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David, and Ahaziah his son
reigned in his place.
2Ki 8:25 In the twelfth year of Joram the son of Ahab, king of Israel, Ahaziah the son of Jehoram, king of Judah,
began to reign.
2Ki 8:26 Ahaziah was twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. His
mother's name was Athaliah; she was a granddaughter of Omri king of Israel.
2Ki 8:27 He also walked in the way of the house of Ahab and did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, as the
house of Ahab had done, for he was son-in-law to the house of Ahab.
2Ki 8:28 He went with Joram the son of Ahab to make war against Hazael king of Syria at Ramoth-gilead, and
the Syrians wounded Joram.
2Ki 8:29 And King Joram returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds that the Syrians had given him at
Ramah, when he fought against Hazael king of Syria. And Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down
to see Joram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, because he was sick.
2Ki 9:1 Then Elisha the prophet called one of the sons of the prophets and said to him, "Tie up your garments,
and take this flask of oil in your hand, and go to Ramoth-gilead.
2Ki 9:2 And when you arrive, look there for Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat, son of Nimshi. And go in and have
him rise from among his fellows, and lead him to an inner chamber.
2Ki 9:3 Then take the flask of oil and pour it on his head and say, 'Thus says the LORD, I anoint you king over
Israel.' Then open the door and flee; do not linger."
2Ki 9:4 So the young man, the servant of the prophet, went to Ramoth-gilead.
2Ki 9:5 And when he came, behold, the commanders of the army were in council. And he said, "I have a word
for you, O commander." And Jehu said, "To which of us all?" And he said, "To you, O commander."
2Ki 9:6 So he arose and went into the house. And the young man poured the oil on his head, saying to him,
"Thus says the LORD the God of Israel, I anoint you king over the people of the LORD, over Israel.
2Ki 9:7 And you shall strike down the house of Ahab your master, so that I may avenge on Jezebel the blood of
my servants the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of the LORD.
2Ki 9:8 For the whole house of Ahab shall perish, and I will cut off from Ahab every male, bond or free, in Israel.
2Ki 9:9 And I will make the house of Ahab like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of
Baasha the son of Ahijah.2Ki 9:10 And the dogs shall eat Jezebel in the territory of Jezreel, and none shall bury her." Then he opened the
door and fled.
2Ki 9:11 When Jehu came out to the servants of his master, they said to him, "Is all well? Why did this mad
fellow come to you?" And he said to them, "You know the fellow and his talk."
2Ki 9:12 And they said, "That is not true; tell us now." And he said, "Thus and so he spoke to me, saying, 'Thus
says the LORD, I anoint you king over Israel.'"
2Ki 9:13 Then in haste every man of them took his garment and put it under him on the bare steps, and they
blew the trumpet and proclaimed, "Jehu is king."
2Ki 9:14 Thus Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi conspired against Joram. ( Now Joram with all
Israel had been on guard at Ramoth-gilead against Hazael king of Syria,
2Ki 9:15 but King Joram had returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds that the Syrians had given him,
when he fought with Hazael king of Syria.) So Jehu said, "If this is your decision, then let no one slip out of the
city to go and tell the news in Jezreel."
2Ki 9:16 Then Jehu mounted his chariot and went to Jezreel, for Joram lay there. And Ahaziah king of Judah
had come down to visit Joram.
2Ki 9:17 Now the watchman was standing on the tower in Jezreel, and he saw the company of Jehu as he came
and said, "I see a company." And Joram said, "Take a horseman and send to meet them, and let him say, 'Is it
peace?'"
2Ki 9:18 So a man on horseback went to meet him and said, "Thus says the king, 'Is it peace?'"And Jehu said,
"What do you have to do with peace? Turn around and ride behind me." And the watchman reported, saying,
"The messenger reached them, but he is not coming back."
2Ki 9:19 Then he sent out a second horseman, who came to them and said, "Thus the king has said, 'Is it
peace?'"And Jehu answered, "What do you have to do with peace? Turn around and ride behind me."
2Ki 9:20 Again the watchman reported, "He reached them, but he is not coming back. And the driving is like the
driving of Jehu the son of Nimshi, for he drives furiously."
2Ki 9:21 Joram said, "Make ready." And they made ready his chariot. Then Joram king of Israel and Ahaziah
king of Judah set out, each in his chariot, and went to meet Jehu, and met him at the property of Naboth the
Jezreelite.
2Ki 9:22 And when Joram saw Jehu, he said, "Is it peace, Jehu?" He answered, "What peace can there be, so
long as the whorings and the sorceries of your mother Jezebel are so many?"
2Ki 9:23 Then Joram reined about and fled, saying to Ahaziah, "Treachery, O Ahaziah!"
2Ki 9:24 And Jehu drew his bow with his full strength, and shot Joram between the shoulders, so that the arrow
pierced his heart, and he sank in his chariot.
2Ki 9:25 Jehu said to Bidkar his aide, "Take him up and throw him on the plot of ground belonging to Naboth the
Jezreelite. For remember, when you and I rode side by side behind Ahab his father, how the LORD made this
pronouncement against him:
2Ki 9:26 'As surely as I saw yesterday the blood of Naboth and the blood of his sons- declares the LORD- I will
repay you on this plot of ground.' Now therefore take him up and throw him on the plot of ground, in accordance
with the word of the LORD."
2Ki 9:27 When Ahaziah the king of Judah saw this, he fled in the direction of Beth-haggan. And Jehu pursued
him and said, "Shoot him also." And they shot him in the chariot at the ascent of Gur, which is by Ibleam. And he
fled to Megiddo and died there.
2Ki 9:28 His servants carried him in a chariot to Jerusalem, and buried him in his tomb with his fathers in the city
of David.
2Ki 9:29 In the eleventh year of Joram the son of Ahab, Ahaziah began to reign over Judah.
2Ki 9:30 When Jehu came to Jezreel, Jezebel heard of it. And she painted her eyes and adorned her head and
looked out of the window.
2Ki 9:31 And as Jehu entered the gate, she said, "Is it peace, you Zimri, murderer of your master?"
2Ki 9:32 And he lifted up his face to the window and said, "Who is on my side? Who?" Two or three eunuchs
looked out at him.
2Ki 9:33 He said, "Throw her down." So they threw her down. And some of her blood spattered on the wall and
on the horses, and they trampled on her.
2Ki 9:34 Then he went in and ate and drank. And he said, "See now to this cursed woman and bury her, for she
is a king's daughter."
2Ki 9:35 But when they went to bury her, they found no more of her than the skull and the feet and the palms of
her hands.
2Ki 9:36 When they came back and told him, he said, "This is the word of the LORD, which he spoke by his
servant Elijah the Tishbite, 'In the territory of Jezreel the dogs shall eat the flesh of Jezebel,
2Ki 9:37 and the corpse of Jezebel shall be as dung on the face of the field in the territory of Jezreel, so that noone can say, This is Jezebel.'"
2Ki 10:1 Now Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. So Jehu wrote letters and sent them to Samaria, to the rulers
of the city, to the elders, and to the guardians of the sons of Ahab, saying,
2Ki 10:2 "Now then, as soon as this letter comes to you, seeing your master's sons are with you, and there are
with you chariots and horses, fortified cities also, and weapons,
2Ki 10:3 select the best and fittest of your master's sons and set him on his father's throne and fight for your
master's house."
2Ki 10:4 But they were exceedingly afraid and said, "Behold, the two kings could not stand before him. How
then can we stand?"
2Ki 10:5 So he who was over the palace, and he who was over the city, together with the elders and the
guardians, sent to Jehu, saying, "We are your servants, and we will do all that you tell us. We will not make
anyone king. Do whatever is good in your eyes."
2Ki 10:6 Then he wrote to them a second letter, saying, "If you are on my side, and if you are ready to obey me,
take the heads of your master's sons and come to me at Jezreel tomorrow at this time." Now the king's sons,
seventy persons, were with the great men of the city, who were bringing them up.
2Ki 10:7 And as soon as the letter came to them, they took the king's sons and slaughtered them, seventy
persons, and put their heads in baskets and sent them to him at Jezreel.
2Ki 10:8 When the messenger came and told him, "They have brought the heads of the king's sons," he said,
"Lay them in two heaps at the entrance of the gate until the morning."
2Ki 10:9 Then in the morning, when he went out, he stood and said to all the people, "You are innocent. It was I
who conspired against my master and killed him, but who struck down all these?
2Ki 10:10 Know then that there shall fall to the earth nothing of the word of the LORD, which the LORD spoke
concerning the house of Ahab, for the LORD has done what he said by his servant Elijah."
2Ki 10:11 So Jehu struck down all who remained of the house of Ahab in Jezreel, all his great men and his
close friends and his priests, until he left him none remaining.
2Ki 10:12 Then he set out and went to Samaria. On the way, when he was at Beth-eked of the Shepherds,
2Ki 10:13 Jehu met the relatives of Ahaziah king of Judah, and he said, "Who are you?" And they answered,
"We are the relatives of Ahaziah, and we came down to visit the royal princes and the sons of the queen
mother."
2Ki 10:14 He said, "Take them alive." And they took them alive and slaughtered them at the pit of Beth-eked,
forty-two persons, and he spared none of them.
2Ki 10:15 And when he departed from there, he met Jehonadab the son of Rechab coming to meet him. And he
greeted him and said to him, "Is your heart true to my heart as mine is to yours?" And Jehonadab answered, "It
is." Jehu said, "If it is, give me your hand." So he gave him his hand. And Jehu took him up with him into the
chariot.
2Ki 10:16 And he said, "Come with me, and see my zeal for the LORD." So he had him ride in his chariot.
2Ki 10:17 And when he came to Samaria, he struck down all who remained to Ahab in Samaria, till he had
wiped them out, according to the word of the LORD that he spoke to Elijah.
2Ki 10:18 Then Jehu assembled all the people and said to them, "Ahab served Baal a little, but Jehu will serve
him much.
2Ki 10:19 Now therefore call to me all the prophets of Baal, all his worshipers and all his priests. Let none be
missing, for I have a great sacrifice to offer to Baal. Whoever is missing shall not live." But Jehu did it with
cunning in order to destroy the worshipers of Baal.
2Ki 10:20 And Jehu ordered, "Sanctify a solemn assembly for Baal." So they proclaimed it.
2Ki 10:21 And Jehu sent throughout all Israel, and all the worshipers of Baal came, so that there was not a man
left who did not come. And they entered the house of Baal, and the house of Baal was filled from one end to the
other.
2Ki 10:22 He said to him who was in charge of the wardrobe, "Bring out the vestments for all the worshipers of
Baal." So he brought out the vestments for them.
2Ki 10:23 Then Jehu went into the house of Baal with Jehonadab the son of Rechab, and he said to the
worshipers of Baal, "Search, and see that there is no servant of the LORD here among you, but only the
worshipers of Baal."
2Ki 10:24 Then they went in to offer sacrifices and burnt offerings. Now Jehu had stationed eighty men outside
and said, "The man who allows any of those whom I give into your hands to escape shall forfeit his life."
2Ki 10:25 So as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt offering, Jehu said to the guard and to the
officers, "Go in and strike them down; let not a man escape." So when they put them to the sword, the guard and
the officers cast them out and went into the inner room of the house of Baal,
2Ki 10:26 and they brought out the pillar that was in the house of Baal and burned it.
2Ki 10:27 And they demolished the pillar of Baal, and demolished the house of Baal, and made it a latrine to thisday.
2Ki 10:28 Thus Jehu wiped out Baal from Israel.
2Ki 10:29 But Jehu did not turn aside from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel to sinthat is, the golden calves that were in Bethel and in Dan.
2Ki 10:30 And the LORD said to Jehu, "Because you have done well in carrying out what is right in my eyes,
and have done to the house of Ahab according to all that was in my heart, your sons of the fourth generation
shall sit on the throne of Israel."
2Ki 10:31 But Jehu was not careful to walk in the law of the LORD the God of Israel with all his heart. He did not
turn from the sins of Jeroboam, which he made Israel to sin.
2Ki 10:32 In those days the LORD began to cut off parts of Israel. Hazael defeated them throughout the territory
of Israel:
2Ki 10:33 from the Jordan eastward, all the land of Gilead, the Gadites, and the Reubenites, and the
Manassites, from Aroer, which is by the Valley of the Arnon, that is, Gilead and Bashan.
2Ki 10:34 Now the rest of the acts of Jehu and all that he did, and all his might, are they not written in the Book
of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2Ki 10:35 So Jehu slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria. And Jehoahaz his son reigned in his
place.
2Ki 10:36 The time that Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria was twenty-eight years.
2Ki 11:1 Now when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the
royal family.
2Ki 11:2 But Jehosheba, the daughter of King Joram, sister of Ahaziah, took Joash the son of Aha-ziah and
stole him away from among the king's sons who were being put to death, and she put him and his nurse in a
bedroom. Thus they hid him from Athaliah, so that he was not put to death.
2Ki 11:3 And he remained with her six years, hidden in the house of the LORD, while Athaliah reigned over the
land.
2Ki 11:4 But in the seventh year Jehoiada sent and brought the captains of the Carites and of the guards, and
had them come to him in the house of the LORD. And he made a covenant with them and put them under oath
in the house of the LORD, and he showed them the king's son.
2Ki 11:5 And he commanded them, "This is the thing that you shall do: one third of you, those who come off
duty on the Sabbath and guard the king's house
2Ki 11:6 ( another third being at the gate Sur and a third at the gate behind the guards) shall guard the palace.
2Ki 11:7 And the two divisions of you, which come on duty in force on the Sabbath and guard the house of the
LORD on behalf of the king,
2Ki 11:8 shall surround the king, each with his weapons in his hand. And whoever approaches the ranks is to be
put to death. Be with the king when he goes out and when he comes in."
2Ki 11:9 The captains did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded, and they each brought his men
who were to go off duty on the Sabbath, with those who were to come on duty on the Sabbath, and came to
Jehoiada the priest.
2Ki 11:10 And the priest gave to the captains the spears and shields that had been King David's, which were in
the house of the LORD.
2Ki 11:11 And the guards stood, every man with his weapons in his hand, from the south side of the house to
the north side of the house, around the altar and the house on behalf of the king.
2Ki 11:12 Then he brought out the king's son and put the crown on him and gave him the testimony. And they
proclaimed him king and anointed him, and they clapped their hands and said, "Long live the king!"
2Ki 11:13 When Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of the people, she went into the house of the LORD
to the people.
2Ki 11:14 And when she looked, there was the king standing by the pillar, according to the custom, and the
captains and the trumpeters beside the king, and all the people of the land rejoicing and blowing trumpets. And
Athaliah tore her clothes and cried, "Treason! Treason!"
2Ki 11:15 Then Jehoiada the priest commanded the captains who were set over the army, "Bring her out
between the ranks, and put to death with the sword anyone who follows her." For the priest said, "Let her not be
put to death in the house of the LORD."
2Ki 11:16 So they laid hands on her; and she went through the horses' entrance to the king's house, and there
she was put to death.
2Ki 11:17 And Jehoiada made a covenant between the LORD and the king and people, that they should be the
LORD's people, and also between the king and the people.
2Ki 11:18 Then all the people of the land went to the house of Baal and tore it down; his altars and his images
they broke in pieces, and they killed Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars. And the priest posted watchmen
over the house of the LORD.2Ki 11:19 And he took the captains, the Carites, the guards, and all the people of the land, and they brought the
king down from the house of the LORD, marching through the gate of the guards to the king's house. And he
took his seat on the throne of the kings.
2Ki 11:20 So all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet after Athaliah had been put to death with
the sword at the king's house.
2Ki 11:21 Jehoash was seven years old when he began to reign.
2Ki 12:1 In the seventh year of Jehu, Jehoash began to reign, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. His
mother's name was Zibiah of Beer-sheba.
2Ki 12:2 And Jehoash did what was right in the eyes of the LORD all his days, because Jehoiada the priest
instructed him.
2Ki 12:3 Nevertheless, the high places were not taken away; the people continued to sacrifice and make
offerings on the high places.
2Ki 12:4 Jehoash said to the priests, "All the money of the holy things that is brought into the house of the
LORD, the money for which each man is assessed- the money from the assessment of persons- and the money
that a man's heart prompts him to bring into the house of the LORD,
2Ki 12:5 let the priests take, each from his donor, and let them repair the house wherever any need of repairs is
discovered."
2Ki 12:6 But by the twenty-third year of King Jehoash, the priests had made no repairs on the house.
2Ki 12:7 Therefore King Jehoash summoned Jehoiada the priest and the other priests and said to them, "Why
are you not repairing the house? Now therefore take no more money from your donors, but hand it over for the
repair of the house."
2Ki 12:8 So the priests agreed that they should take no more money from the people, and that they should not
repair the house.
2Ki 12:9 Then Jehoiada the priest took a chest and bored a hole in the lid of it and set it beside the altar on the
right side as one entered the house of the LORD. And the priests who guarded the threshold put in it all the
money that was brought into the house of the LORD.
2Ki 12:10 And whenever they saw that there was much money in the chest, the king's secretary and the high
priest came up and they bagged and counted the money that was found in the house of the LORD.
2Ki 12:11 Then they would give the money that was weighed out into the hands of the workmen who had the
oversight of the house of the LORD. And they paid it out to the carpenters and the builders who worked on the
house of the LORD,
2Ki 12:12 and to the masons and the stonecutters, as well as to buy timber and quarried stone for making
repairs on the house of the LORD, and for any outlay for the repairs of the house.
2Ki 12:13 But there were not made for the house of the LORD basins of silver, snuffers, bowls, trumpets, or any
vessels of gold, or of silver, from the money that was brought into the house of the LORD,
2Ki 12:14 for that was given to the workmen who were repairing the house of the LORD with it.
2Ki 12:15 And they did not ask an accounting from the men into whose hand they delivered the money to pay
out to the workmen, for they dealt honestly.
2Ki 12:16 The money from the guilt offerings and the money from the sin offerings was not brought into the
house of the LORD; it belonged to the priests.
2Ki 12:17 At that time Hazael king of Syria went up and fought against Gath and took it. But when Hazael set
his face to go up against Jerusalem,
2Ki 12:18 Jehoash king of Judah took all the sacred gifts that Jehoshaphat and Jehoram and Ahaziah his
fathers, the kings of Judah, had dedicated, and his own sacred gifts, and all the gold that was found in the
treasuries of the house of the LORD and of the king's house, and sent these to Hazael king of Syria. Then
Hazael went away from Jerusalem.
2Ki 12:19 Now the rest of the acts of Joash and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles
of the Kings of Judah?
2Ki 12:20 His servants arose and made a conspiracy and struck down Joash in the house of Millo, on the way
that goes down to Silla.
2Ki 12:21 It was Jozacar the son of Shimeath and Jehozabad the son of Shomer, his servants, who struck him
down, so that he died. And they buried him with his fathers in the city of David, and Amaziah his son reigned in
his place.
2Ki 13:1 In the twenty-third year of Joash the son of Ahaziah, king of Judah, Jehoahaz the son of Jehu began to
reign over Israel in Samaria, and he reigned seventeen years.
2Ki 13:2 He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD and followed the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat,
which he made Israel to sin; he did not depart from them.
2Ki 13:3 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and he gave them continually into the hand of
Hazael king of Syria and into the hand of Ben-hadad the son of Hazael.2Ki 13:4 Then Jehoahaz sought the favor of the LORD, and the LORD listened to him, for he saw the
oppression of Israel, how the king of Syria oppressed them.
2Ki 13:5 (Therefore the LORD gave Israel a savior, so that they escaped from the hand of the Syrians, and the
people of Israel lived in their homes as formerly.
2Ki 13:6 Nevertheless, they did not depart from the sins of the house of Jeroboam, which he made Israel to sin,
but walked in them; and the Asherah also remained in Samaria.)
2Ki 13:7 For there was not left to Jehoahaz an army of more than fifty horsemen and ten chariots and ten
thousand footmen, for the king of Syria had destroyed them and made them like the dust at threshing.
2Ki 13:8 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoahaz and all that he did, and his might, are they not written in the Book
of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2Ki 13:9 So Jehoahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria, and Joash his son reigned in his
place.
2Ki 13:10 In the thirty-seventh year of Joash king of Judah, Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz began to reign over
Israel in Samaria, and he reigned sixteen years.
2Ki 13:11 He also did what was evil in the sight of the LORD. He did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam
the son of Nebat, which he made Israel to sin, but he walked in them.
2Ki 13:12 Now the rest of the acts of Joash and all that he did, and the might with which he fought against
Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2Ki 13:13 So Joash slept with his fathers, and Jeroboam sat on his throne. And Joash was buried in Samaria
with the kings of Israel.
2Ki 13:14 Now when Elisha had fallen sick with the illness of which he was to die, Joash king of Israel went
down to him and wept before him, crying, "My father, my father! The chariots of Israel and its horsemen!"
2Ki 13:15 And Elisha said to him, "Take a bow and arrows." So he took a bow and arrows.
2Ki 13:16 Then he said to the king of Israel, "Draw the bow," and he drew it. And Elisha laid his hands on the
king's hands.
2Ki 13:17 And he said, "Open the window eastward," and he opened it. Then Elisha said, "Shoot," and he shot.
And he said, "The LORD's arrow of victory, the arrow of victory over Syria! For you shall fight the Syrians in
Aphek until you have made an end of them."
2Ki 13:18 And he said, "Take the arrows," and he took them. And he said to the king of Israel, "Strike the ground
with them." And he struck three times and stopped.
2Ki 13:19 Then the man of God was angry with him and said, "You should have struck five or six times; then
you would have struck down Syria until you had made an end of it, but now you will strike down Syria only three
times."
2Ki 13:20 So Elisha died, and they buried him. Now bands of Moabites used to invade the land in the spring of
the year.
2Ki 13:21 And as a man was being buried, behold, a marauding band was seen and the man was thrown into
the grave of Elisha, and as soon as the man touched the bones of Elisha, he revived and stood on his feet.
2Ki 13:22 Now Hazael king of Syria oppressed Israel all the days of Jehoahaz.
2Ki 13:23 But the LORD was gracious to them and had compassion on them, and he turned toward them,
because of his covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and would not destroy them, nor has he cast them
from his presence until now.
2Ki 13:24 When Hazael king of Syria died, Ben-hadad his son became king in his place.
2Ki 13:25 Then Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz took again from Ben-hadad the son of Hazael the cities that he
had taken from Jehoahaz his father in war. Three times Joash defeated him and recovered the cities of Israel.
2Ki 14:1 In the second year of Joash the son of Joahaz, king of Israel, Amaziah the son of Joash, king of Judah,
began to reign.
2Ki 14:2 He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem.
His mother's name was Jehoaddin of Jerusalem.
2Ki 14:3 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, yet not like David his father. He did in all things as
Joash his father had done.
2Ki 14:4 But the high places were not removed; the people still sacrificed and made offerings on the high
places.
2Ki 14:5 And as soon as the royal power was firmly in his hand, he struck down his servants who had struck
down the king his father.
2Ki 14:6 But he did not put to death the children of the murderers, according to what is written in the Book of the
Law of Moses, where the LORD commanded, "Fathers shall not be put to death because of their children, nor
shall children be put to death because of their fathers. But each one shall die for his own sin."
2Ki 14:7 He struck down ten thousand Edomites in the Valley of Salt and took Sela by storm, and called it
Joktheel, which is its name to this day.2Ki 14:8 Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz, son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying,
"Come, let us look one another in the face."
2Ki 14:9 And Jehoash king of Israel sent word to Amaziah king of Judah, "A thistle on Lebanon sent to a cedar
on Lebanon, saying, 'Give your daughter to my son for a wife,' and a wild beast of Lebanon passed by and
trampled down the thistle.
2Ki 14:10 You have indeed struck down Edom, and your heart has lifted you up. Be content with your glory, and
stay at home, for why should you provoke trouble so that you fall, you and Judah with you?"
2Ki 14:11 But Amaziah would not listen. So Jehoash king of Israel went up, and he and Amaziah king of Judah
faced one another in battle at Beth-shemesh, which belongs to Judah.
2Ki 14:12 And Judah was defeated by Israel, and every man fled to his home.
2Ki 14:13 And Jehoash king of Israel captured Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Jehoash, son of Ahaziah, at
Beth-shemesh, and came to Jerusalem and broke down the wall of Jerusalem for four hundred cubits, from the
Ephraim Gate to the Corner Gate.
2Ki 14:14 And he seized all the gold and silver, and all the vessels that were found in the house of the LORD
and in the treasuries of the king's house, also hostages, and he returned to Samaria.
2Ki 14:15 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoash that he did, and his might, and how he fought with Amaziah king
of Judah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2Ki 14:16 And Jehoash slept with his fathers and was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel, and Jeroboam
his son reigned in his place.
2Ki 14:17 Amaziah the son of Joash, king of Judah, lived fifteen years after the death of Jehoash son of
Jehoahaz, king of Israel.
2Ki 14:18 Now the rest of the deeds of Amaziah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings
of Judah?
2Ki 14:19 And they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish. But they sent after him
to Lachish and put him to death there.
2Ki 14:20 And they brought him on horses; and he was buried in Jerusalem with his fathers in the city of David.
2Ki 14:21 And all the people of Judah took Azariah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king instead of
his father Amaziah.
2Ki 14:22 He built Elath and restored it to Judah, after the king slept with his fathers.
2Ki 14:23 In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash, king of Judah, Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of
Israel, began to reign in Samaria, and he reigned forty-one years.
2Ki 14:24 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD. He did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam the
son of Nebat, which he made Israel to sin.
2Ki 14:25 He restored the border of Israel from Lebo-hamath as far as the Sea of the Arabah, according to the
word of the LORD, the God of Israel, which he spoke by his servant Jonah the son of Amittai, the prophet, who
was from Gath-hepher.
2Ki 14:26 For the LORD saw that the affliction of Israel was very bitter, for there was none left, bond or free, and
there was none to help Israel.
2Ki 14:27 But the LORD had not said that he would blot out the name of Israel from under heaven, so he saved
them by the hand of Jeroboam the son of Joash.
2Ki 14:28 Now the rest of the acts of Jeroboam and all that he did, and his might, how he fought, and how he
restored Damascus and Hamath to Judah in Israel, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the
Kings of Israel?
2Ki 14:29 And Jeroboam slept with his fathers, the kings of Israel, and Zechariah his son reigned in his place.
2Ki 15:1 In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Aza-riah the son of Amaziah, king of Judah,
began to reign.
2Ki 15:2 He was sixteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem. His
mother's name was Jecoliah of Jerusalem.
2Ki 15:3 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, according to all that his father Amaziah had done.
2Ki 15:4 Nevertheless, the high places were not taken away. The people still sacrificed and made offerings on
the high places.
2Ki 15:5 And the LORD touched the king, so that he was a leper to the day of his death, and he lived in a
separate house. And Jotham the king's son was over the household, governing the people of the land.
2Ki 15:6 Now the rest of the acts of Azariah, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the
Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
2Ki 15:7 And Azariah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David, and Jotham
his son reigned in his place.
2Ki 15:8 In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah king of Judah, Zechariah the son of Jeroboam reigned over Israel in
Samaria six months.2Ki 15:9 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, as his fathers had done. He did not depart from the
sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel to sin.
2Ki 15:10 Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him and struck him down at Ibleam and put him to death
and reigned in his place.
2Ki 15:11 Now the rest of the deeds of Zechariah, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the
Kings of Israel.
2Ki 15:12 (This was the promise of the LORD that he gave to Jehu, "Your sons shall sit on the throne of Israel to
the fourth generation." And so it came to pass.)
2Ki 15:13 Shallum the son of Jabesh began to reign in the thirty-ninth year of Uzziah king of Judah, and he
reigned one month in Samaria.
2Ki 15:14 Then Menahem the son of Gadi came up from Tirzah and came to Samaria, and he struck down
Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria and put him to death and reigned in his place.
2Ki 15:15 Now the rest of the deeds of Shallum, and the conspiracy that he made, behold, they are written in
the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel.
2Ki 15:16 At that time Menahem sacked Tiphsah and all who were in it and its territory from Tirzah on, because
they did not open it to him. Therefore he sacked it, and he ripped open all the women in it who were pregnant.
2Ki 15:17 In the thirty-ninth year of Azariah king of Judah, Menahem the son of Gadi began to reign over Israel,
and he reigned ten years in Samaria.
2Ki 15:18 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD. He did not depart all his days from all the sins of
Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel to sin.
2Ki 15:19 Pul the king of Assyria came against the land, and Menahem gave Pul a thousand talents of silver,
that he might help him to confirm his hold on the royal power.
2Ki 15:20 Menahem exacted the money from Israel, that is, from all the wealthy men, fifty shekels of silver from
every man, to give to the king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria turned back and did not stay there in the land.
2Ki 15:21 Now the rest of the deeds of Menahem and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the
Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2Ki 15:22 And Menahem slept with his fathers, and Pekahiah his son reigned in his place.
2Ki 15:23 In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekahiah the son of Menahem began to reign over Israel
in Samaria, and he reigned two years.
2Ki 15:24 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD. He did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam
the son of Nebat, which he made Israel to sin.
2Ki 15:25 And Pekah the son of Remaliah, his captain, conspired against him with fifty men of the people of
Gilead, and struck him down in Samaria, in the citadel of the king's house with Argob and Arieh; he put him to
death and reigned in his place.
2Ki 15:26 Now the rest of the deeds of Pekahiah and all that he did, behold, they are written in the Book of the
Chronicles of the Kings of Israel.
2Ki 15:27 In the fifty-second year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekah the son of Remaliah began to reign over
Israel in Samaria, and he reigned twenty years.
2Ki 15:28 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD. He did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam the
son of Nebat, which he made Israel to sin.
2Ki 15:29 In the days of Pekah king of Israel, Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria came and captured Ijon, Abel-bethmaacah, Janoah, Kedesh, Hazor, Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali, and he carried the people captive
to Assyria.
2Ki 15:30 Then Hoshea the son of Elah made a conspiracy against Pekah the son of Remaliah and struck him
down and put him to death and reigned in his place, in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah.
2Ki 15:31 Now the rest of the acts of Pekah and all that he did, behold, they are written in the Book of the
Chronicles of the Kings of Israel.
2Ki 15:32 In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, Jotham the son of Uzziah, king of
Judah, began to reign.
2Ki 15:33 He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. His
mother's name was Jerusha the daughter of Zadok.
2Ki 15:34 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, according to all that his father Uzziah had done.
2Ki 15:35 Nevertheless, the high places were not removed. The people still sacrificed and made offerings on the
high places. He built the upper gate of the house of the LORD.
2Ki 15:36 Now the rest of the acts of Jotham and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the
Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
2Ki 15:37 In those days the LORD began to send Rezin the king of Syria and Pekah the son of Remaliah
against Judah.
2Ki 15:38 Jotham slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father, and Ahazhis son reigned in his place.
2Ki 16:1 In the seventeenth year of Pekah the son of Remaliah, Ahaz the son of Jotham, king of Judah, began
to reign.
2Ki 16:2 Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And he
did not do what was right in the eyes of the LORD his God, as his father David had done,
2Ki 16:3 but he walked in the way of the kings of Israel. He even burned his son as an offering, according to the
despicable practices of the nations whom the LORD drove out before the people of Israel.
2Ki 16:4 And he sacrificed and made offerings on the high places and on the hills and under every green tree.
2Ki 16:5 Then Rezin king of Syria and Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, came up to wage war on
Jerusalem, and they besieged Ahaz but could not conquer him.
2Ki 16:6 At that time Rezin the king of Syria recovered Elath for Syria and drove the men of Judah from Elath,
and the Edomites came to Elath, where they dwell to this day.
2Ki 16:7 So Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria, saying, "I am your servant and your son.
Come up and rescue me from the hand of the king of Syria and from the hand of the king of Israel, who are
attacking me."
2Ki 16:8 Ahaz also took the silver and gold that was found in the house of the LORD and in the treasures of the
king's house and sent a present to the king of Assyria.
2Ki 16:9 And the king of Assyria listened to him. The king of Assyria marched up against Damascus and took it,
carrying its people captive to Kir, and he killed Rezin.
2Ki 16:10 When King Ahaz went to Damascus to meet Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria, he saw the altar that was
at Damascus. And King Ahaz sent to Uriah the priest a model of the altar, and its pattern, exact in all its details.
2Ki 16:11 And Uriah the priest built the altar; in accordance with all that King Ahaz had sent from Damascus, so
Uriah the priest made it, before King Ahaz arrived from Damascus.
2Ki 16:12 And when the king came from Damascus, the king viewed the altar. Then the king drew near to the
altar and went up on it
2Ki 16:13 and burned his burnt offering and his grain offering and poured his drink offering and threw the blood
of his peace offerings on the altar.
2Ki 16:14 And the bronze altar that was before the LORD he removed from the front of the house, from the
place between his altar and the house of the LORD, and put it on the north side of his altar.
2Ki 16:15 And King Ahaz commanded Uriah the priest, saying, "On the great altar burn the morning burnt
offering and the evening grain offering and the king's burnt offering and his grain offering, with the burnt offering
of all the people of the land, and their grain offering and their drink offering. And throw on it all the blood of the
burnt offering and all the blood of the sacrifice, but the bronze altar shall be for me to inquire by."
2Ki 16:16 Uriah the priest did all this, as King Ahaz commanded.
2Ki 16:17 And King Ahaz cut off the frames of the stands and removed the basin from them, and he took down
the sea from off the bronze oxen that were under it and put it on a stone pedestal.
2Ki 16:18 And the covered way for the Sabbath that had been built inside the house and the outer entrance for
the king he caused to go around the house of the LORD, because of the king of Assyria.
2Ki 16:19 Now the rest of the acts of Ahaz that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the
Kings of Judah?
2Ki 16:20 And Ahaz slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David, and Hezekiah his
son reigned in his place.
2Ki 17:1 In the twelfth year of Ahaz king of Judah, Hoshea the son of Elah began to reign in Samaria over
Israel, and he reigned nine years.
2Ki 17:2 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, yet not as the kings of Israel who were before him.
2Ki 17:3 Against him came up Shalmaneser king of Assyria. And Hoshea became his vassal and paid him
tribute.
2Ki 17:4 But the king of Assyria found treachery in Hoshea, for he had sent messengers to So, king of Egypt,
and offered no tribute to the king of Assyria, as he had done year by year. Therefore the king of Assyria shut him
up and bound him in prison.
2Ki 17:5 Then the king of Assyria invaded all the land and came to Samaria, and for three years he besieged it.
2Ki 17:6 In the ninth year of Hoshea, the king of Assyria captured Samaria, and he carried the Israelites away to
Assyria and placed them in Halah, and on the Habor, the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes.
2Ki 17:7 And this occurred because the people of Israel had sinned against the LORD their God, who had
brought them up out of the land of Egypt from under the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and had feared other
gods
2Ki 17:8 and walked in the customs of the nations whom the LORD drove out before the people of Israel, and in
the customs that the kings of Israel had practiced.
2Ki 17:9 And the people of Israel did secretly against the LORD their God things that were not right. They builtfor themselves high places in all their towns, from watchtower to fortified city.
2Ki 17:10 They set up for themselves pillars and Asherim on every high hill and under every green tree,
2Ki 17:11 and there they made offerings on all the high places, as the nations did whom the LORD carried away
before them. And they did wicked things, provoking the LORD to anger,
2Ki 17:12 and they served idols, of which the LORD had said to them, "You shall not do this."
2Ki 17:13 Yet the LORD warned Israel and Judah by every prophet and every seer, saying, "Turn from your evil
ways and keep my commandments and my statutes, in accordance with all the Law that I commanded your
fathers, and that I sent to you by my servants the prophets."
2Ki 17:14 But they would not listen, but were stubborn, as their fathers had been, who did not believe in the
LORD their God.
2Ki 17:15 They despised his statutes and his covenant that he made with their fathers and the warnings that he
gave them. They went after false idols and became false, and they followed the nations that were around them,
concerning whom the LORD had commanded them that they should not do like them.
2Ki 17:16 And they abandoned all the commandments of the LORD their God, and made for themselves metal
images of two calves; and they made an Asherah and worshiped all the host of heaven and served Baal.
2Ki 17:17 And they burned their sons and their daughters as offerings and used divination and omens and sold
themselves to do evil in the sight of the LORD, provoking him to anger.
2Ki 17:18 Therefore the LORD was very angry with Israel and removed them out of his sight. None was left but
the tribe of Judah only.
2Ki 17:19 Judah also did not keep the commandments of the LORD their God, but walked in the customs that
Israel had introduced.
2Ki 17:20 And the LORD rejected all the descendants of Israel and afflicted them and gave them into the hand
of plunderers, until he had cast them out of his sight.
2Ki 17:21 When he had torn Israel from the house of David, they made Jeroboam the son of Nebat king. And
Jeroboam drove Israel from following the LORD and made them commit great sin.
2Ki 17:22 The people of Israel walked in all the sins that Jeroboam did. They did not depart from them,
2Ki 17:23 until the LORD removed Israel out of his sight, as he had spoken by all his servants the prophets. So
Israel was exiled from their own land to Assyria until this day.
2Ki 17:24 And the king of Assyria brought people from Babylon, Cuthah, Avva, Hamath, and Sepharvaim, and
placed them in the cities of Samaria instead of the people of Israel. And they took possession of Samaria and
lived in its cities.
2Ki 17:25 And at the beginning of their dwelling there, they did not fear the LORD. Therefore the LORD sent
lions among them, which killed some of them.
2Ki 17:26 So the king of Assyria was told, "The nations that you have carried away and placed in the cities of
Samaria do not know the law of the god of the land. Therefore he has sent lions among them, and behold, they
are killing them, because they do not know the law of the god of the land."
2Ki 17:27 Then the king of Assyria commanded, "Send there one of the priests whom you carried away from
there, and let him go and dwell there and teach them the law of the god of the land."
2Ki 17:28 So one of the priests whom they had carried away from Samaria came and lived in Bethel and taught
them how they should fear the LORD.
2Ki 17:29 But every nation still made gods of its own and put them in the shrines of the high places that the
Samaritans had made, every nation in the cities in which they lived.
2Ki 17:30 The men of Babylon made Succoth-benoth, the men of Cuth made Nergal, the men of Hamath made
Ashima,
2Ki 17:31 and the Avvites made Nibhaz and Tartak; and the Sepharvites burned their children in the fire to
Adrammelech and Anammelech, the gods of Sephar-vaim.
2Ki 17:32 They also feared the LORD and appointed from among themselves all sorts of people as priests of
the high places, who sacrificed for them in the shrines of the high places.
2Ki 17:33 So they feared the LORD but also served their own gods, after the manner of the nations from among
whom they had been carried away.
2Ki 17:34 To this day they do according to the former manner. They do not fear the LORD, and they do not
follow the statutes or the rules or the law or the commandment that the LORD commanded the children of Jacob,
whom he named Israel.
2Ki 17:35 The LORD made a covenant with them and commanded them, "You shall not fear other gods or bow
yourselves to them or serve them or sacrifice to them,
2Ki 17:36 but you shall fear the LORD, who brought you out of the land of Egypt with great power and with an
outstretched arm. You shall bow yourselves to him, and to him you shall sacrifice.
2Ki 17:37 And the statutes and the rules and the law and the commandment that he wrote for you, you shall
always be careful to do. You shall not fear other gods,2Ki 17:38 and you shall not forget the covenant that I have made with you. You shall not fear other gods,
2Ki 17:39 but you shall fear the LORD your God, and he will deliver you out of the hand of all your enemies."
2Ki 17:40 However, they would not listen, but they did according to their former manner.
2Ki 17:41 So these nations feared the LORD and also served their carved images. Their children did likewise,
and their children's children- as their fathers did, so they do to this day.
2Ki 18:1 In the third year of Hoshea son of Elah, king of Israel, Hezekiah the son of Ahaz, king of Judah, began
to reign.
2Ki 18:2 He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem.
His mother's name was Abi the daughter of Zechariah.
2Ki 18:3 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, according to all that David his father had done.
2Ki 18:4 He removed the high places and broke the pillars and cut down the Asherah. And he broke in pieces
the bronze serpent that Moses had made, for until those days the people of Israel had made offerings to it (it was
called Nehushtan).
2Ki 18:5 He trusted in the LORD the God of Israel, so that there was none like him among all the kings of Judah
after him, nor among those who were before him.
2Ki 18:6 For he held fast to the LORD. He did not depart from following him, but kept the commandments that
the LORD commanded Moses.
2Ki 18:7 And the LORD was with him; wherever he went out, he prospered. He rebelled against the king of
Assyria and would not serve him.
2Ki 18:8 He struck down the Philistines as far as Gaza and its territory, from watchtower to fortified city.
2Ki 18:9 In the fourth year of King Hezekiah, which was the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah, king of Israel,
Shal-maneser king of Assyria came up against Samaria and besieged it,
2Ki 18:10 and at the end of three years he took it. In the sixth year of Hezekiah, which was the ninth year of
Hoshea king of Israel, Samaria was taken.
2Ki 18:11 The king of Assyria carried the Israelites away to Assyria and put them in Halah, and on the Habor,
the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes,
2Ki 18:12 because they did not obey the voice of the LORD their God but transgressed his covenant, even all
that Moses the servant of the LORD commanded. They neither listened nor obeyed.
2Ki 18:13 In the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified
cities of Judah and took them.
2Ki 18:14 And Hezekiah king of Judah sent to the king of Assyria at Lachish, saying, "I have done wrong;
withdraw from me. Whatever you impose on me I will bear." And the king of Assyria required of Hezekiah king of
Judah three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold.
2Ki 18:15 And Hezekiah gave him all the silver that was found in the house of the LORD and in the treasuries of
the king's house.
2Ki 18:16 At that time Hezekiah stripped the gold from the doors of the temple of the LORD and from the
doorposts that Hezekiah king of Judah had overlaid and gave it to the king of Assyria.
2Ki 18:17 And the king of Assyria sent the Tartan, the Rab-saris, and the Rabshakeh with a great army from
Lachish to King Hezekiah at Jerusalem. And they went up and came to Jerusalem. When they arrived, they
came and stood by the conduit of the upper pool, which is on the highway to the Washer's Field.
2Ki 18:18 And when they called for the king, there came out to them Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over
the household, and Shebnah the secretary, and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder.
2Ki 18:19 And the Rabshakeh said to them, "Say to Hezekiah, 'Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria: On
what do you rest this trust of yours?
2Ki 18:20 Do you think that mere words are strategy and power for war? In whom do you now trust, that you
have rebelled against me?
2Ki 18:21 Behold, you are trusting now in Egypt, that broken reed of a staff, which will pierce the hand of any
man who leans on it. Such is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all who trust in him.
2Ki 18:22 But if you say to me, "We trust in the LORD our God," is it not he whose high places and altars
Hezekiah has removed, saying to Judah and to Jerusalem, "You shall worship before this altar in Jerusalem"?
2Ki 18:23 Come now, make a wager with my master the king of Assyria: I will give you two thousand horses, if
you are able on your part to set riders on them.
2Ki 18:24 How then can you repulse a single captain among the least of my master's servants, when you trust
in Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?
2Ki 18:25 Moreover, is it without the LORD that I have come up against this place to destroy it? The LORD said
to me, Go up against this land, and destroy it.'"
2Ki 18:26 Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, and Shebnah, and Joah, said to the Rabshakeh, "Please speak to
your servants in Aramaic, for we understand it. Do not speak to us in the language of Judah within the hearing of
the people who are on the wall."2Ki 18:27 But the Rabshakeh said to them, "Has my master sent me to speak these words to your master and
to you, and not to the men sitting on the wall, who are doomed with you to eat their own dung and to drink their
own urine?"
2Ki 18:28 Then the Rabshakeh stood and called out in a loud voice in the language of Judah: "Hear the word of
the great king, the king of Assyria!
2Ki 18:29 Thus says the king: 'Do not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you out of my
hand.
2Ki 18:30 Do not let Hezekiah make you trust in the LORD by saying, The LORD will surely deliver us, and this
city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.'
2Ki 18:31 Do not listen to Hezekiah, for thus says the king of Assyria: 'Make your peace with me and come out
to me. Then each one of you will eat of his own vine, and each one of his own fig tree, and each one of you will
drink the water of his own cistern,
2Ki 18:32 until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of grain and wine, a land of bread
and vineyards, a land of olive trees and honey, that you may live, and not die. And do not listen to Hezekiah
when he misleads you by saying, The LORD will deliver us.
2Ki 18:33 Has any of the gods of the nations ever delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria?
2Ki 18:34 Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivvah?
Have they delivered Samaria out of my hand?
2Ki 18:35 Who among all the gods of the lands have delivered their lands out of my hand, that the LORD should
deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?'"
2Ki 18:36 But the people were silent and answered him not a word, for the king's command was, "Do not
answer him."
2Ki 18:37 Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and Joah
the son of Asaph, the recorder, came to Hezekiah with their clothes torn and told him the words of the
Rabshakeh.
2Ki 19:1 As soon as King Hezekiah heard it, he tore his clothes and covered himself with sackcloth and went
into the house of the LORD.
2Ki 19:2 And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and the senior priests,
covered with sackcloth, to the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz.
2Ki 19:3 They said to him, "Thus says Hezekiah, This day is a day of distress, of rebuke, and of disgrace;
children have come to the point of birth, and there is no strength to bring them forth.
2Ki 19:4 It may be that the LORD your God heard all the words of the Rabshakeh, whom his master the king of
Assyria has sent to mock the living God, and will rebuke the words that the LORD your God has heard; therefore
lift up your prayer for the remnant that is left."
2Ki 19:5 When the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah,
2Ki 19:6 Isaiah said to them, "Say to your master, 'Thus says the LORD: Do not be afraid because of the words
that you have heard, with which the servants of the king of Assyria have reviled me.
2Ki 19:7 Behold, I will put a spirit in him, so that he shall hear a rumor and return to his own land, and I will
make him fall by the sword in his own land.'"
2Ki 19:8 The Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria fighting against Libnah, for he heard that the
king had left Lachish.
2Ki 19:9 Now the king heard concerning Tirhakah king of Cush, "Behold, he has set out to fight against you." So
he sent messengers again to Hezekiah, saying,
2Ki 19:10 "Thus shall you speak to Hezekiah king of Judah: 'Do not let your God in whom you trust deceive you
by promising that Jerusalem will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.
2Ki 19:11 Behold, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, devoting them to
destruction. And shall you be delivered?
2Ki 19:12 Have the gods of the nations delivered them, the nations that my fathers destroyed, Gozan, Haran,
Rezeph, and the people of Eden who were in Telassar?
2Ki 19:13 Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, the king of the city of Sepharvaim, the king of Hena,
or the king of Ivvah?'"
2Ki 19:14 Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messengers and read it; and Hezekiah went up to
the house of the LORD and spread it before the LORD.
2Ki 19:15 And Hezekiah prayed before the LORD and said: "O LORD the God of Israel, who is enthroned above
the cherubim, you are the God, you alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth; you have made heaven and earth.
2Ki 19:16 Incline your ear, O LORD, and hear; open your eyes, O LORD, and see; and hear the words of
Sennacherib, which he has sent to mock the living God.
2Ki 19:17 Truly, O LORD, the kings of Assyria have laid waste the nations and their lands
2Ki 19:18 and have cast their gods into the fire, for they were not gods, but the work of men's hands, wood andstone. Therefore they were destroyed.
2Ki 19:19 So now, O LORD our God, save us, please, from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may
know that you, O LORD, are God alone."
2Ki 19:20 Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, "Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Your
prayer to me about Sennacherib king of Assyria I have heard.
2Ki 19:21 This is the word that the LORD has spoken concerning him: "She despises you, she scorns you- the
virgin daughter of Zion; she wags her head behind you- the daughter of Jerusalem.
2Ki 19:22 "Whom have you mocked and reviled? Against whom have you raised your voice and lifted your eyes
to the heights? Against the Holy One of Israel!
2Ki 19:23 By your messengers you have mocked the Lord, and you have said, 'With my many chariots I have
gone up the heights of the mountains, to the far recesses of Lebanon; I felled its tallest cedars, its choicest
cypresses; I entered its farthest lodging place, its most fruitful forest.
2Ki 19:24 I dug wells and drank foreign waters, and I dried up with the sole of my foot all the streams of Egypt.'
2Ki 19:25 "Have you not heard that I determined it long ago? I planned from days of old what now I bring to
pass, that you should turn fortified cities into heaps of ruins,
2Ki 19:26 while their inhabitants, shorn of strength, are dismayed and confounded, and have become like plants
of the field and like tender grass, like grass on the housetops, blighted before it is grown.
2Ki 19:27 "But I know your sitting down and your going out and coming in, and your raging against me.
2Ki 19:28 Because you have raged against me and your complacency has come into my ears, I will put my hook
in your nose and my bit in your mouth, and I will turn you back on the way by which you came.
2Ki 19:29 "And this shall be the sign for you: this year eat what grows of itself, and in the second year what
springs of the same. Then in the third year sow and reap and plant vineyards, and eat their fruit.
2Ki 19:30 And the surviving remnant of the house of Judah shall again take root downward and bear fruit
upward.
2Ki 19:31 For out of Jerusalem shall go a remnant, and out of Mount Zion a band of survivors. The zeal of the
LORD will do this.
2Ki 19:32 "Therefore thus says the LORD concerning the king of Assyria: He shall not come into this city or
shoot an arrow there, or come before it with a shield or cast up a siege mound against it.
2Ki 19:33 By the way that he came, by the same he shall return, and he shall not come into this city, declares
the LORD.
2Ki 19:34 For I will defend this city to save it, for my own sake and for the sake of my servant David."
2Ki 19:35 And that night the angel of the LORD went out and struck down 185,000 in the camp of the Assyrians.
And when people arose early in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies.
2Ki 19:36 Then Sennacherib king of Assyria departed and went home and lived at Nineveh.
2Ki 19:37 And as he was worshiping in the house of Nisroch his god, Adrammelech and Sharezer, his sons,
struck him down with the sword and escaped into the land of Ararat. And Esarhaddon his son reigned in his
place.
2Ki 20:1 In those days Hezekiah became sick and was at the point of death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of
Amoz came to him and said to him, "Thus says the LORD, 'Set your house in order, for you shall die; you shall
not recover.'"
2Ki 20:2 Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to the LORD, saying,
2Ki 20:3 "Now, O LORD, please remember how I have walked before you in faithfulness and with a whole heart,
and have done what is good in your sight." And Hezekiah wept bitterly.
2Ki 20:4 And before Isaiah had gone out of the middle court, the word of the LORD came to him:
2Ki 20:5 "Turn back, and say to Hezekiah the leader of my people, Thus says the LORD, the God of David your
father: I have heard your prayer; I have seen your tears. Behold, I will heal you. On the third day you shall go up
to the house of the LORD,
2Ki 20:6 and I will add fifteen years to your life. I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the king of
Assyria, and I will defend this city for my own sake and for my servant David's sake."
2Ki 20:7 And Isaiah said, "Bring a cake of figs. And let them take and lay it on the boil, that he may recover."
2Ki 20:8 And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, "What shall be the sign that the LORD will heal me, and that I shall go up
to the house of the LORD on the third day?"
2Ki 20:9 And Isaiah said, "This shall be the sign to you from the LORD, that the LORD will do the thing that he
has promised: shall the shadow go forward ten steps, or go back ten steps?"
2Ki 20:10 And Hezekiah answered, "It is an easy thing for the shadow to lengthen ten steps. Rather let the
shadow go back ten steps."
2Ki 20:11 And Isaiah the prophet called to the LORD, and he brought the shadow back ten steps, by which it
had gone down on the steps of Ahaz.
2Ki 20:12 At that time Merodach-baladan the son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent envoys with letters and apresent to Hezekiah, for he heard that Hezekiah had been sick.
2Ki 20:13 And Hezekiah welcomed them, and he showed them all his treasure house, the silver, the gold, the
spices, the precious oil, his armory, all that was found in his storehouses. There was nothing in his house or in
all his realm that Hezekiah did not show them.
2Ki 20:14 Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah, and said to him, "What did these men say? And from
where did they come to you?" And Hezekiah said, "They have come from a far country, from Babylon."
2Ki 20:15 He said, "What have they seen in your house?" And Hezekiah answered, "They have seen all that is
in my house; there is nothing in my storehouses that I did not show them."
2Ki 20:16 Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, "Hear the word of the LORD:
2Ki 20:17 Behold, the days are coming, when all that is in your house, and that which your fathers have stored
up till this day, shall be carried to Babylon. Nothing shall be left, says the LORD.
2Ki 20:18 And some of your own sons, who shall be born to you, shall be taken away, and they shall be
eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon."
2Ki 20:19 Then said Heze-kiah to Isaiah, "The word of the LORD that you have spoken is good." For he
thought, "Why not, if there will be peace and security in my days?"
2Ki 20:20 The rest of the deeds of Hezekiah and all his might and how he made the pool and the conduit and
brought water into the city, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
2Ki 20:21 And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and Manasseh his son reigned in his place.
2Ki 21:1 Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem.
His mother's name was Hephzibah.
2Ki 21:2 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to the despicable practices of the nations
whom the LORD drove out before the people of Israel.
2Ki 21:3 For he rebuilt the high places that Hezekiah his father had destroyed, and he erected altars for Baal
and made an Asherah, as Ahab king of Israel had done, and worshiped all the host of heaven and served them.
2Ki 21:4 And he built altars in the house of the LORD, of which the LORD had said, "In Jerusalem will I put my
name."
2Ki 21:5 And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of the LORD.
2Ki 21:6 And he burned his son as an offering and used fortune-telling and omens and dealt with mediums and
with wizards. He did much evil in the sight of the LORD, provoking him to anger.
2Ki 21:7 And the carved image of Asherah that he had made he set in the house of which the LORD said to
David and to Solomon his son, "In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of
Israel, I will put my name forever.
2Ki 21:8 And I will not cause the feet of Israel to wander anymore out of the land that I gave to their fathers, if
only they will be careful to do according to all that I have commanded them, and according to all the Law that my
servant Moses commanded them."
2Ki 21:9 But they did not listen, and Manasseh led them astray to do more evil than the nations had done whom
the LORD destroyed before the people of Israel.
2Ki 21:10 And the LORD said by his servants the prophets,
2Ki 21:11 "Because Manasseh king of Judah has committed these abominations and has done things more evil
than all that the Amorites did, who were before him, and has made Judah also to sin with his idols,
2Ki 21:12 therefore thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Behold, I am bringing upon Jerusalem and Judah
such disaster that the ears of everyone who hears of it will tingle.
2Ki 21:13 And I will stretch over Jerusalem the measuring line of Samaria, and the plumb line of the house of
Ahab, and I will wipe Jerusalem as one wipes a dish, wiping it and turning it upside down.
2Ki 21:14 And I will forsake the remnant of my heritage and give them into the hand of their enemies, and they
shall become a prey and a spoil to all their enemies,
2Ki 21:15 because they have done what is evil in my sight and have provoked me to anger, since the day their
fathers came out of Egypt, even to this day."
2Ki 21:16 Moreover, Manasseh shed very much innocent blood, till he had filled Jerusalem from one end to
another, besides the sin that he made Judah to sin so that they did what was evil in the sight of the LORD.
2Ki 21:17 Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh and all that he did, and the sin that he committed, are they not
written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
2Ki 21:18 And Manasseh slept with his fathers and was buried in the garden of his house, in the garden of
Uzza, and Amon his son reigned in his place.
2Ki 21:19 Amon was twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned two years in Jerusalem. His
mother's name was Meshullemeth the daughter of Haruz of Jotbah.
2Ki 21:20 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, as Manasseh his father had done.
2Ki 21:21 He walked in all the way in which his father walked and served the idols that his father served and
worshiped them.2Ki 21:22 He abandoned the LORD, the God of his fathers, and did not walk in the way of the LORD.
2Ki 21:23 And the servants of Amon conspired against him and put the king to death in his house.
2Ki 21:24 But the people of the land struck down all those who had conspired against King Amon, and the
people of the land made Josiah his son king in his place.
2Ki 21:25 Now the rest of the acts of Amon that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the
Kings of Judah?
2Ki 21:26 And he was buried in his tomb in the garden of Uzza, and Josiah his son reigned in his place.
2Ki 22:1 Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem. His
mother's name was Jedidah the daughter of Adaiah of Bozkath.
2Ki 22:2 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD and walked in all the way of David his father, and
he did not turn aside to the right or to the left.
2Ki 22:3 In the eighteenth year of King Josiah, the king sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, son of Meshullam, the
secretary, to the house of the LORD, saying,
2Ki 22:4 "Go up to Hilkiah the high priest, that he may count the money that has been brought into the house of
the LORD, which the keepers of the threshold have collected from the people.
2Ki 22:5 And let it be given into the hand of the workmen who have the oversight of the house of the LORD, and
let them give it to the workmen who are at the house of the LORD, repairing the house (
2Ki 22:6 that is, to the carpenters, and to the builders, and to the masons), and let them use it for buying timber
and quarried stone to repair the house.
2Ki 22:7 But no accounting shall be asked from them for the money that is delivered into their hand, for they
deal honestly."
2Ki 22:8 And Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the secretary, "I have found the Book of the Law in the
house of the LORD." And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan, and he read it.
2Ki 22:9 And Shaphan the secretary came to the king, and reported to the king, "Your servants have emptied
out the money that was found in the house and have delivered it into the hand of the workmen who have the
oversight of the house of the LORD."
2Ki 22:10 Then Shaphan the secretary told the king, "Hilkiah the priest has given me a book." And Shaphan
read it before the king.
2Ki 22:11 When the king heard the words of the Book of the Law, he tore his clothes.
2Ki 22:12 And the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Achbor the son of
Micaiah, and Shaphan the secretary, and Asaiah the king's servant, saying,
2Ki 22:13 "Go, inquire of the LORD for me, and for the people, and for all Judah, concerning the words of this
book that has been found. For great is the wrath of the LORD that is kindled against us, because our fathers
have not obeyed the words of this book, to do according to all that is written concerning us."
2Ki 22:14 So Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam, and Achbor, and Shaphan, and Asaiah went to Huldah the
prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvah, son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe (now she lived in
Jerusalem in the Second Quarter), and they talked with her.
2Ki 22:15 And she said to them, "Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: 'Tell the man who sent you to me,
2Ki 22:16 Thus says the LORD, behold, I will bring disaster upon this place and upon its inhabitants, all the
words of the book that the king of Judah has read.
2Ki 22:17 Because they have forsaken me and have made offerings to other gods, that they might provoke me
to anger with all the work of their hands, therefore my wrath will be kindled against this place, and it will not be
quenched.
2Ki 22:18 But to the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of the LORD, thus shall you say to him, Thus says
the LORD, the God of Israel: Regarding the words that you have heard,
2Ki 22:19 because your heart was penitent, and you humbled yourself before the LORD, when you heard how I
spoke against this place and against its inhabitants, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and you
have torn your clothes and wept before me, I also have heard you, declares the LORD.
2Ki 22:20 Therefore, behold, I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace,
and your eyes shall not see all the disaster that I will bring upon this place.'"And they brought back word to the
king.
2Ki 23:1 Then the king sent, and all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem were gathered to him.
2Ki 23:2 And the king went up to the house of the LORD, and with him all the men of Judah and all the
inhabitants of Jerusalem and the priests and the prophets, all the people, both small and great. And he read in
their hearing all the words of the Book of the Covenant that had been found in the house of the LORD.
2Ki 23:3 And the king stood by the pillar and made a covenant before the LORD, to walk after the LORD and to
keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes with all his heart and all his soul, to perform the
words of this covenant that were written in this book. And all the people joined in the covenant.
2Ki 23:4 And the king commanded Hilkiah the high priest and the priests of the second order and the keepers ofthe threshold to bring out of the temple of the LORD all the vessels made for Baal, for Asherah, and for all the
host of heaven. He burned them outside Jerusalem in the fields of the Kidron and carried their ashes to Bethel.
2Ki 23:5 And he deposed the priests whom the kings of Judah had ordained to make offerings in the high places
at the cities of Judah and around Jerusalem; those also who burned incense to Baal, to the sun and the moon
and the constellations and all the host of the heavens.
2Ki 23:6 And he brought out the Asherah from the house of the LORD, outside Jerusalem, to the brook Kidron,
and burned it at the brook Kidron and beat it to dust and cast the dust of it upon the graves of the common
people.
2Ki 23:7 And he broke down the houses of the male cult prostitutes who were in the house of the LORD, where
the women wove hangings for the Asherah.
2Ki 23:8 And he brought all the priests out of the cities of Judah, and defiled the high places where the priests
had made offerings, from Geba to Beersheba. And he broke down the high places of the gates that were at the
entrance of the gate of Joshua the governor of the city, which were on one's left at the gate of the city.
2Ki 23:9 However, the priests of the high places did not come up to the altar of the LORD in Jerusalem, but they
ate unleavened bread among their brothers.
2Ki 23:10 And he defiled Topheth, which is in the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, that no one might burn his son or
his daughter as an offering to Molech.
2Ki 23:11 And he removed the horses that the kings of Judah had dedicated to the sun, at the entrance to the
house of the LORD, by the chamber of Nathan-melech the chamberlain, which was in the precincts. And he
burned the chariots of the sun with fire.
2Ki 23:12 And the altars on the roof of the upper chamber of Ahaz, which the kings of Judah had made, and the
altars that Manasseh had made in the two courts of the house of the LORD, he pulled down and broke in pieces
and cast the dust of them into the brook Kidron.
2Ki 23:13 And the king defiled the high places that were east of Jerusalem, to the south of the mount of
corruption, which Solomon the king of Israel had built for Ashtoreth the abomination of the Sidonians, and for
Chemosh the abomination of Moab, and for Milcom the abomination of the Ammonites.
2Ki 23:14 And he broke in pieces the pillars and cut down the Asherim and filled their places with the bones of
men.
2Ki 23:15 Moreover, the altar at Bethel, the high place erected by Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel
to sin, that altar with the high place he pulled down and burned, reducing it to dust. He also burned the Asherah.
2Ki 23:16 And as Josiah turned, he saw the tombs there on the mount. And he sent and took the bones out of
the tombs and burned them on the altar and defiled it, according to the word of the LORD that the man of God
proclaimed, who had predicted these things.
2Ki 23:17 Then he said, "What is that monument that I see?" And the men of the city told him, "It is the tomb of
the man of God who came from Judah and predicted these things that you have done against the altar at
Bethel."
2Ki 23:18 And he said, "Let him be; let no man move his bones." So they let his bones alone, with the bones of
the prophet who came out of Samaria.
2Ki 23:19 And Josiah removed all the shrines also of the high places that were in the cities of Samaria, which
kings of Israel had made, provoking the LORD to anger. He did to them according to all that he had done at
Bethel.
2Ki 23:20 And he sacrificed all the priests of the high places who were there, on the altars, and burned human
bones on them. Then he returned to Jerusalem.
2Ki 23:21 And the king commanded all the people, "Keep the Passover to the LORD your God, as it is written in
this Book of the Covenant."
2Ki 23:22 For no such Passover had been kept since the days of the judges who judged Israel, or during all the
days of the kings of Israel or of the kings of Judah.
2Ki 23:23 But in the eighteenth year of King Josiah this Passover was kept to the LORD in Jerusalem.
2Ki 23:24 Moreover, Josiah put away the mediums and the necromancers and the household gods and the idols
and all the abominations that were seen in the land of Judah and in Jerusalem, that he might establish the words
of the law that were written in the book that Hilkiah the priest found in the house of the LORD.
2Ki 23:25 Before him there was no king like him, who turned to the LORD with all his heart and with all his soul
and with all his might, according to all the Law of Moses, nor did any like him arise after him.
2Ki 23:26 Still the LORD did not turn from the burning of his great wrath, by which his anger was kindled against
Judah, because of all the provocations with which Manasseh had provoked him.
2Ki 23:27 And the LORD said, "I will remove Judah also out of my sight, as I have removed Israel, and I will cast
off this city that I have chosen, Jerusalem, and the house of which I said, My name shall be there."
2Ki 23:28 Now the rest of the acts of Josiah and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles
of the Kings of Judah?2Ki 23:29 In his days Pharaoh Neco king of Egypt went up to the king of Assyria to the river Euphrates. King
Josiah went to meet him, and Pharaoh Neco killed him at Megiddo, as soon as he saw him.
2Ki 23:30 And his servants carried him dead in a chariot from Megiddo and brought him to Jerusalem and
buried him in his own tomb. And the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah, and anointed him, and
made him king in his father's place.
2Ki 23:31 Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months in
Jerusalem. His mother's name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
2Ki 23:32 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his fathers had done.
2Ki 23:33 And Pharaoh Neco put him in bonds at Riblah in the land of Hamath, that he might not reign in
Jerusalem, and laid on the land a tribute of a hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold.
2Ki 23:34 And Pharaoh Neco made Eliakim the son of Josiah king in the place of Josiah his father, and changed
his name to Jehoiakim. But he took Jehoahaz away, and he came to Egypt and died there.
2Ki 23:35 And Jehoiakim gave the silver and the gold to Pharaoh, but he taxed the land to give the money
according to the command of Pharaoh. He exacted the silver and the gold of the people of the land, from
everyone according to his assessment, to give it to Pharaoh Neco.
2Ki 23:36 Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in
Jerusalem. His mother's name was Zebidah the daughter of Pedaiah of Rumah.
2Ki 23:37 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his fathers had done.
2Ki 24:1 In his days, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up, and Jehoiakim became his servant three years.
Then he turned and rebelled against him.
2Ki 24:2 And the LORD sent against him bands of the Chaldeans and bands of the Syrians and bands of the
Moabites and bands of the Ammonites, and sent them against Judah to destroy it, according to the word of the
LORD that he spoke by his servants the prophets.
2Ki 24:3 Surely this came upon Judah at the command of the LORD, to remove them out of his sight, for the
sins of Manasseh, according to all that he had done,
2Ki 24:4 and also for the innocent blood that he had shed. For he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood, and the
LORD would not pardon.
2Ki 24:5 Now the rest of the deeds of Jehoiakim and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the
Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
2Ki 24:6 So Jehoiakim slept with his fathers, and Jehoiachin his son reigned in his place.
2Ki 24:7 And the king of Egypt did not come again out of his land, for the king of Babylon had taken all that
belonged to the king of Egypt from the Brook of Egypt to the river Euphrates.
2Ki 24:8 Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he became king, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem.
His mother's name was Nehushta the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem.
2Ki 24:9 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father had done.
2Ki 24:10 At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up to Jerusalem, and the city was
besieged.
2Ki 24:11 And Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came to the city while his servants were besieging it,
2Ki 24:12 and Jehoiachin the king of Judah gave himself up to the king of Babylon, himself and his mother and
his servants and his officials and his palace officials. The king of Babylon took him prisoner in the eighth year of
his reign
2Ki 24:13 and carried off all the treasures of the house of the LORD and the treasures of the king's house, and
cut in pieces all the vessels of gold in the temple of the LORD, which Solomon king of Israel had made, as the
LORD had foretold.
2Ki 24:14 He carried away all Jerusalem and all the officials and all the mighty men of valor, 10,000 captives,
and all the craftsmen and the smiths. None remained, except the poorest people of the land.
2Ki 24:15 And he carried away Jehoiachin to Babylon. The king's mother, the king's wives, his officials, and the
chief men of the land he took into captivity from Jerusalem to Babylon.
2Ki 24:16 And the king of Babylon brought captive to Babylon all the men of valor, 7,000, and the craftsmen and
the metal workers, 1,000, all of them strong and fit for war.
2Ki 24:17 And the king of Babylon made Mattaniah, Jehoiachin's uncle, king in his place, and changed his name
to Zedekiah.
2Ki 24:18 Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem.
His mother's name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
2Ki 24:19 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that Jehoiakim had done.
2Ki 24:20 For because of the anger of the LORD it came to the point in Jerusalem and Judah that he cast them
out from his presence. And Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon.
2Ki 25:1 And in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, Nebuchadnezzar
king of Babylon came with all his army against Jerusalem and laid siege to it. And they built siegeworks allaround it.
2Ki 25:2 So the city was besieged till the eleventh year of King Zedekiah.
2Ki 25:3 On the ninth day of the fourth month the famine was so severe in the city that there was no food for the
people of the land.
2Ki 25:4 Then a breach was made in the city, and all the men of war fled by night by the way of the gate
between the two walls, by the king's garden, though the Chaldeans were around the city. And they went in the
direction of the Arabah.
2Ki 25:5 But the army of the Chaldeans pursued the king and overtook him in the plains of Jericho, and all his
army was scattered from him.
2Ki 25:6 Then they captured the king and brought him up to the king of Babylon at Riblah, and they passed
sentence on him.
2Ki 25:7 They slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes, and put out the eyes of Zedekiah and bound
him in chains and took him to Babylon.
2Ki 25:8 In the fifth month, on the seventh day of the month- that was the nineteenth year of King
Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon- Nebuzaradan, the captain of the bodyguard, a servant of the king of Babylon,
came to Jerusalem.
2Ki 25:9 And he burned the house of the LORD and the king's house and all the houses of Jerusalem; every
great house he burned down.
2Ki 25:10 And all the army of the Chaldeans, who were with the captain of the guard, broke down the walls
around Jerusalem.
2Ki 25:11 And the rest of the people who were left in the city and the deserters who had deserted to the king of
Babylon, together with the rest of the multitude, Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried into exile.
2Ki 25:12 But the captain of the guard left some of the poorest of the land to be vinedressers and plowmen.
2Ki 25:13 And the pillars of bronze that were in the house of the LORD, and the stands and the bronze sea that
were in the house of the LORD, the Chaldeans broke in pieces and carried the bronze to Babylon.
2Ki 25:14 And they took away the pots and the shovels and the snuffers and the dishes for incense and all the
vessels of bronze used in the temple service,
2Ki 25:15 the fire pans also and the bowls. What was of gold the captain of the guard took away as gold, and
what was of silver, as silver.
2Ki 25:16 As for the two pillars, the one sea, and the stands that Solomon had made for the house of the LORD,
the bronze of all these vessels was beyond weight.
2Ki 25:17 The height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, and on it was a capital of bronze. The height of the
capital was three cubits. A latticework and pomegranates, all of bronze, were all around the capital. And the
second pillar had the same, with the latticework.
2Ki 25:18 And the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest and Zephaniah the second priest and the
three keepers of the threshold,
2Ki 25:19 and from the city he took an officer who had been in command of the men of war, and five men of the
king's council who were found in the city, and the secretary of the commander of the army who mustered the
people of the land, and sixty men of the people of the land who were found in the city.
2Ki 25:20 And Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them and brought them to the king of Babylon at
Riblah.
2Ki 25:21 And the king of Babylon struck them down and put them to death at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So
Judah was taken into exile out of its land.
2Ki 25:22 And over the people who remained in the land of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had
left, he appointed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, son of Shaphan, governor.
2Ki 25:23 Now when all the captains and their men heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Gedaliah
governor, they came with their men to Gedaliah at Mizpah, namely, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan
the son of Kareah, and Seraiah the son of Tan-humeth the Netophathite, and Jaaza-niah the son of the
Maacathite.
2Ki 25:24 And Gedaliah swore to them and their men, saying, "Do not be afraid because of the Chaldean
officials. Live in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you."
2Ki 25:25 But in the seventh month, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, son of Elishama, of the royal family, came
with ten men and struck down Gedaliah and put him to death along with the Jews and the Chaldeans who were
with him at Mizpah.
2Ki 25:26 Then all the people, both small and great, and the captains of the forces arose and went to Egypt, for
they were afraid of the Chaldeans.
2Ki 25:27 And in the thirty-seventh year of the exile of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the
twenty-seventh day of the month, Evil-merodach king of Babylon, in the year that he began to reign, graciously
freed Jehoiachin king of Judah from prison.2Ki 25:28 And he spoke kindly to him and gave him a seat above the seats of the kings who were with him in
Babylon.
2Ki 25:29 So Jehoiachin put off his prison garments. And every day of his life he dined regularly at the king's
table,
2Ki 25:30 and for his allowance, a regular allowance was given him by the king, according to his daily needs, as
long as he lived.
1Ch 1:1 Adam, Seth, Enosh;
1Ch 1:2 Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared;
1Ch 1:3 Enoch, Methuse-lah, Lamech;
1Ch 1:4 Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
1Ch 1:5 The sons of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras.
1Ch 1:6 The sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah.
1Ch 1:7 The sons of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Rodanim.
1Ch 1:8 The sons of Ham: Cush, Egypt, Put, and Canaan.
1Ch 1:9 The sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raama, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah: Sheba and
Dedan.
1Ch 1:10 Cush fathered Nimrod. He was the first on earth to be a mighty man.
1Ch 1:11 Egypt fathered Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, Naphtuhim,
1Ch 1:12 Pathrusim, Casluhim (from whom the Philistines came), and Caphtorim.
1Ch 1:13 Canaan fathered Sidon his firstborn and Heth,
1Ch 1:14 and the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Girgashites,
1Ch 1:15 the Hivites, the Arkites, the Sinites,
1Ch 1:16 the Arvadites, the Zemarites, and the Hamathites.
1Ch 1:17 The sons of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arpachshad, Lud, and Aram. And the sons of Aram: Uz, Hul,
Gether, and Meshech.
1Ch 1:18 Arpachshad fathered Shelah, and Shelah fathered Eber.
1Ch 1:19 To Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg (for in his days the earth was divided),
and his brother's name was Joktan.
1Ch 1:20 Joktan fathered Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah,
1Ch 1:21 Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah,
1Ch 1:22 Obal, Abimael, Sheba,
1Ch 1:23 Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan.
1Ch 1:24 Shem, Arpachshad, Shelah;
1Ch 1:25 Eber, Peleg, Reu;
1Ch 1:26 Serug, Nahor, Terah;
1Ch 1:27 Abram, that is, Abraham.
1Ch 1:28 The sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael.
1Ch 1:29 These are their genealogies: the firstborn of Ishmael, Ne-baioth, and Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam,
1Ch 1:30 Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema,
1Ch 1:31 Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael.
1Ch 1:32 The sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she bore Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and
Shuah. The sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan.
1Ch 1:33 The sons of Midian: Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the descendants of
Keturah.
1Ch 1:34 Abraham fathered Isaac. The sons of Isaac: Esau and Israel.
1Ch 1:35 The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, and Korah.
1Ch 1:36 The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, Kenaz, and of Timna, Amalek.
1Ch 1:37 The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.
1Ch 1:38 The sons of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan.
1Ch 1:39 The sons of Lotan: Hori and Hemam; and Lotan's sister was Timna.
1Ch 1:40 The sons of Shobal: Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho, and Onam. The sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah.
1Ch 1:41 The son of Anah: Dishon. The sons of Dishon: Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran, and Cheran.
1Ch 1:42 The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zaavan, and Akan. The sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.
1Ch 1:43 These are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the people of
Israel: Bela the son of Beor, the name of his city being Dinhabah.
1Ch 1:44 Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his place.
1Ch 1:45 Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his place.
1Ch 1:46 Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who defeated Midian in the country of Moab, reigned in
his place, the name of his city being Avith.1Ch 1:47 Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his place.
1Ch 1:48 Samlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth on the Euphrates reigned in his place.
1Ch 1:49 Shaul died, and Baal-hanan, the son of Achbor, reigned in his place.
1Ch 1:50 Baal-hanan died, and Hadad reigned in his place, the name of his city being Pai; and his wife's name
was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
1Ch 1:51 And Hadad died. The chiefs of Edom were: chiefs Timna, Alvah, Jetheth,
1Ch 1:52 Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon,
1Ch 1:53 Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar,
1Ch 1:54 Magdiel, and Iram; these are the chiefs of Edom.
1Ch 2:1 These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun,
1Ch 2:2 Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
1Ch 2:3 The sons of Judah: Er, Onan and Shelah; these three Bath-shua the Canaanite bore to him. Now Er,
Judah's firstborn, was evil in the sight of the LORD, and he put him to death.
1Ch 2:4 His daughter-in-law Tamar also bore him Perez and Zerah. Judah had five sons in all.
1Ch 2:5 The sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul.
1Ch 2:6 The sons of Zerah: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol, and Dara, five in all.
1Ch 2:7 The son of Carmi: Achan, the troubler of Israel, who broke faith in the matter of the devoted thing;
1Ch 2:8 and Ethan's son was Azariah.
1Ch 2:9 The sons of Hezron that were born to him: Jerahmeel, Ram, and Chelubai.
1Ch 2:10 Ram fathered Amminadab, and Amminadab fathered Nahshon, prince of the sons of Judah.
1Ch 2:11 Nahshon fathered Salmon, Salmon fathered Boaz,
1Ch 2:12 Boaz fathered Obed, Obed fathered Jesse.
1Ch 2:13 Jesse fathered Eliab his firstborn, Abinadab the second, Shimea the third,
1Ch 2:14 Nethanel the fourth, Raddai the fifth,
1Ch 2:15 Ozem the sixth, David the seventh.
1Ch 2:16 And their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. The sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, Joab, and Asahel, three.
1Ch 2:17 Abigail bore Amasa, and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite.
1Ch 2:18 Caleb the son of Hezron fathered children by his wife Azubah, and by Jerioth; and these were her
sons: Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon.
1Ch 2:19 When Azubah died, Caleb married Ephrath, who bore him Hur.
1Ch 2:20 Hur fathered Uri, and Uri fathered Bezalel.
1Ch 2:21 Afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, whom he married when he
was sixty years old, and she bore him Segub.
1Ch 2:22 And Segub fathered Jair, who had twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead.
1Ch 2:23 But Geshur and Aram took from them Havvoth-jair, Kenath, and its villages, sixty towns. All these
were descendants of Machir, the father of Gilead.
1Ch 2:24 After the death of Hezron, Caleb went in to Ephrathah, the wife of Hezron his father, and she bore him
Ashhur, the father of Tekoa.
1Ch 2:25 The sons of Jerahmeel, the firstborn of Hezron: Ram, his firstborn, Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah.
1Ch 2:26 Jerahmeel also had another wife, whose name was Atarah; she was the mother of Onam.
1Ch 2:27 The sons of Ram, the firstborn of Jerahmeel: Maaz, Jamin, and Eker.
1Ch 2:28 The sons of Onam: Shammai and Jada. The sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur.
1Ch 2:29 The name of Abishur's wife was Abihail, and she bore him Ahban and Molid.
1Ch 2:30 The sons of Nadab: Seled and Appaim; and Seled died childless.
1Ch 2:31 The son of Appaim: Ishi. The son of Ishi: Sheshan. The son of Sheshan: Ahlai.
1Ch 2:32 The sons of Jada, Shammai's brother: Jether and Jonathan; and Jether died childless.
1Ch 2:33 The sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These were the descendants of Jerahmeel.
1Ch 2:34 Now Sheshan had no sons, only daughters, but Sheshan had an Egyptian slave whose name was
Jarha.
1Ch 2:35 So Sheshan gave his daughter in marriage to Jarha his slave, and she bore him Attai.
1Ch 2:36 Attai fathered Nathan, and Nathan fathered Zabad.
1Ch 2:37 Zabad fathered Ephlal, and Ephlal fathered Obed.
1Ch 2:38 Obed fathered Jehu, and Jehu fathered Azariah.
1Ch 2:39 Azariah fathered Helez, and Helez fathered Eleasah.
1Ch 2:40 Eleasah fathered Sismai, and Sismai fathered Shallum.
1Ch 2:41 Shallum fathered Jekamiah, and Jekamiah fathered Elishama.
1Ch 2:42 The sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel: Mareshah his firstborn, who fathered Ziph. The son of
Mareshah: Hebron.
1Ch 2:43 The sons of Hebron: Korah, Tappuah, Rekem and Shema.1Ch 2:44 Shema fathered Raham, the father of Jorkeam; and Rekem fathered Shammai.
1Ch 2:45 The son of Shammai: Maon; and Maon fathered Beth-zur.
1Ch 2:46 Ephah also, Caleb's concubine, bore Haran, Moza, and Gazez; and Haran fathered Gazez.
1Ch 2:47 The sons of Jahdai: Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph.
1Ch 2:48 Maacah, Caleb's concubine, bore Sheber and Tirhanah.
1Ch 2:49 She also bore Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbenah and the father of
Gibea; and the daughter of Caleb was Achsah.
1Ch 2:50 These were the descendants of Caleb. The sons of Hur the firstborn of Ephrathah: Shobal the father
of Kiriath-jearim,
1Ch 2:51 Salma, the father of Bethlehem, and Hareph the father of Beth-gader.
1Ch 2:52 Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim had other sons: Haroeh, half of the Menuhoth.
1Ch 2:53 And the clans of Kiriath-jearim: the Ithrites, the Puthites, the Shumathites, and the Mishraites; from
these came the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites.
1Ch 2:54 The sons of Salma: Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Atroth-beth-joab and half of the Manahathites, the
Zorites.
1Ch 2:55 The clans also of the scribes who lived at Jabez: the Tirathites, the Shimeathites and the Sucathites.
These are the Kenites who came from Hammath, the father of the house of Rechab.
1Ch 3:1 These are the sons of David who were born to him in Hebron: the firstborn, Amnon, by Ahinoam the
Jezreelite; the second, Daniel, by Abigail the Carmelite,
1Ch 3:2 the third, Absalom, whose mother was Maacah, the daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur; the fourth,
Adonijah, whose mother was Haggith;
1Ch 3:3 the fifth, Shephatiah, by Abital; the sixth, Ithream, by his wife Eglah;
1Ch 3:4 six were born to him in Hebron, where he reigned for seven years and six months. And he reigned
thirty-three years in Jerusalem.
1Ch 3:5 These were born to him in Jerusalem: Shimea, Shobab, Nathan and Solomon, four by Bath-shua, the
daughter of Ammiel;
1Ch 3:6 then Ibhar, Elishama, Eliphelet,
1Ch 3:7 Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia,
1Ch 3:8 Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine.
1Ch 3:9 All these were David's sons, besides the sons of the concubines, and Tamar was their sister.
1Ch 3:10 The son of Solomon was Rehoboam, Abijah his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son,
1Ch 3:11 Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son,
1Ch 3:12 Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son,
1Ch 3:13 Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son,
1Ch 3:14 Amon his son, Josiah his son.
1Ch 3:15 The sons of Josiah: Johanan the firstborn, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth
Shallum.
1Ch 3:16 The descendants of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah his son, Zedekiah his son;
1Ch 3:17 and the sons of Jeconiah, the captive: Shealtiel his son,
1Ch 3:18 Malchiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hosh-ama and Nedabiah;
1Ch 3:19 and the sons of Pedaiah: Zerubbabel and Shimei; and the sons of Zerubbabel: Meshullam and
Hananiah, and Shelomith was their sister;
1Ch 3:20 and Hashubah, Ohel, Berechiah, Hasadiah, and Jushab-hesed, five.
1Ch 3:21 The sons of Hananiah: Pelatiah and Jeshaiah, his son Rephaiah, his son Arnan, his son Obadiah, his
son Shecaniah.
1Ch 3:22 The son of Shecaniah: Shemaiah. And the sons of Shemaiah: Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah, and
Shaphat, six.
1Ch 3:23 The sons of Neariah: Elioenai, Hizkiah, and Azrikam, three.
1Ch 3:24 The sons of Elioenai: Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah, and Anani, seven.
1Ch 4:1 The sons of Judah: Perez, Hezron, Carmi, Hur, and Shobal.
1Ch 4:2 Reaiah the son of Shobal fathered Jahath, and Jahath fathered Ahumai and Lahad. These were the
clans of the Zorathites.
1Ch 4:3 These were the sons of Etam: Jezreel, Ishma, and Idbash; and the name of their sister was Hazzelelponi,
1Ch 4:4 and Penuel fathered Gedor, and Ezer fathered Hushah. These were the sons of Hur, the firstborn of
Ephrathah, the father of Bethlehem.
1Ch 4:5 Ashhur, the father of Tekoa, had two wives, Helah and Naarah;
1Ch 4:6 Naarah bore him Ahuzzam, Hepher, Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were the sons of Naarah.
1Ch 4:7 The sons of Helah: Zereth, Izhar, and Ethnan.1Ch 4:8 Koz fathered Anub, Zobebah, and the clans of Aharhel, the son of Harum.
1Ch 4:9 Jabez was more honorable than his brothers; and his mother called his name Jabez, saying, "Because
I bore him in pain."
1Ch 4:10 Jabez called upon the God of Israel, saying, "Oh that you would bless me and enlarge my border, and
that your hand might be with me, and that you would keep me from harm so that it might not bring me pain!" And
God granted what he asked.
1Ch 4:11 Chelub, the brother of Shuhah, fathered Mehir, who fathered Eshton.
1Ch 4:12 Eshton fathered Beth-rapha, Paseah, and Tehinnah, the father of Ir-nahash. These are the men of
Recah.
1Ch 4:13 The sons of Kenaz: Othniel and Seraiah; and the sons of Othniel: Hathath and Meonothai.
1Ch 4:14 Meonothai fathered Ophrah; and Seraiah fathered Joab, the father of Ge-harashim, so-called because
they were craftsmen.
1Ch 4:15 The sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh: Iru, Elah, and Naam; and the son of Elah: Kenaz.
1Ch 4:16 The sons of Jehallelel: Ziph, Ziphah, Tiria, and Asarel.
1Ch 4:17 The sons of Ezrah: Jether, Mered, Epher, and Jalon. These are the sons of Bithiah, the daughter of
Pharaoh, whom Mered married; and she conceived and bore Miriam, Shammai, and Ishbah, the father of
Eshtemoa.
1Ch 4:18 And his Judahite wife bore Jered the father of Gedor, Heber the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel the
father of Zanoah.
1Ch 4:19 The sons of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham, were the fathers of Keilah the Garmite and
Eshtemoa the Maacathite.
1Ch 4:20 The sons of Shimon: Amnon, Rinnah, Ben-hanan, and Tilon. The sons of Ishi: Zoheth and Benzoheth.
1Ch 4:21 The sons of Shelah the son of Judah: Er the father of Lecah, Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the
clans of the house of linen workers at Beth-ashbea;
1Ch 4:22 and Jokim, and the men of Cozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who ruled in Moab and returned to
Lehem (now the records are ancient).
1Ch 4:23 These were the potters who were inhabitants of Netaim and Gederah. They lived there in the king's
service.
1Ch 4:24 The sons of Simeon: Nemuel, Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul;
1Ch 4:25 Shallum was his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son.
1Ch 4:26 The sons of Mishma: Hammuel his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son.
1Ch 4:27 Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters; but his brothers did not have many children, nor did all
their clan multiply like the men of Judah.
1Ch 4:28 They lived in Beersheba, Moladah, Hazar-shual,
1Ch 4:29 Bilhah, Ezem, Tolad,
1Ch 4:30 Bethuel, Hormah, Ziklag,
1Ch 4:31 Beth-marcaboth, Hazar-su-sim, Beth-biri, and Shaaraim. These were their cities until David reigned.
1Ch 4:32 And their villages were Etam, Ain, Rimmon, Tochen, and Ashan, five cities,
1Ch 4:33 along with all their villages that were around these cities as far as Baal. These were their settlements,
and they kept a genealogical record.
1Ch 4:34 Meshobab, Jamlech, Joshah the son of Amaziah,
1Ch 4:35 Joel, Jehu the son of Joshibiah, son of Seraiah, son of Asiel,
1Ch 4:36 Elioenai, Jaakobah, Jeshohaiah, Asaiah, Adiel, Jesimiel, Benaiah,
1Ch 4:37 Ziza the son of Shiphi, son of Allon, son of Jedaiah, son of Shimri, son of Shemaiah-
1Ch 4:38 these mentioned by name were princes in their clans, and their fathers' houses increased greatly.
1Ch 4:39 They journeyed to the entrance of Gedor, to the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks,
1Ch 4:40 where they found rich, good pasture, and the land was very broad, quiet, and peaceful, for the former
inhabitants there belonged to Ham.
1Ch 4:41 These, registered by name, came in the days of Hezekiah, king of Judah, and destroyed their tents
and the Meunites who were found there, and marked them for destruction to this day, and settled in their place,
because there was pasture there for their flocks.
1Ch 4:42 And some of them, five hundred men of the Simeonites, went to Mount Seir, having as their leaders
Pelatiah, Neariah, Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi.
1Ch 4:43 And they defeated the remnant of the Amalek-ites who had escaped, and they have lived there to this
day.
1Ch 5:1 The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel ( for he was the firstborn, but because he defiled his father's
couch, his birthright was given to the sons of Joseph the son of Israel, so that he could not be enrolled as the
oldest son;1Ch 5:2 though Judah became strong among his brothers and a chief came from him, yet the birthright
belonged to Joseph),
1Ch 5:3 the sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi.
1Ch 5:4 The sons of Joel: Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son,
1Ch 5:5 Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son,
1Ch 5:6 Beerah his son, whom Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria carried away into exile; he was a chief of the
Reubenites.
1Ch 5:7 And his kinsmen by their clans, when the genealogy of their generations was recorded: the chief, Jeiel,
and Zechariah,
1Ch 5:8 and Bela the son of Azaz, son of Shema, son of Joel, who lived in Aroer, as far as Nebo and Baalmeon.
1Ch 5:9 He also lived to the east as far as the entrance of the desert this side of the Euphrates, because their
livestock had multiplied in the land of Gilead.
1Ch 5:10 And in the days of Saul they waged war against the Hagrites, who fell into their hand. And they lived in
their tents throughout all the region east of Gilead.
1Ch 5:11 The sons of Gad lived over against them in the land of Bashan as far as Salecah:
1Ch 5:12 Joel the chief, Shapham the second, Janai, and Shaphat in Bashan.
1Ch 5:13 And their kinsmen according to their fathers' houses: Michael, Meshullam, Sheba, Jorai, Jacan, Zia
and Eber, seven.
1Ch 5:14 These were the sons of Abihail the son of Huri, son of Jaroah, son of Gilead, son of Michael, son of
Je-shishai, son of Jahdo, son of Buz.
1Ch 5:15 Ahi the son of Abdiel, son of Guni, was chief in their fathers' houses,
1Ch 5:16 and they lived in Gilead, in Bashan and in its towns, and in all the pasturelands of Sharon to their
limits.
1Ch 5:17 All of these were recorded in genealogies in the days of Jotham king of Judah, and in the days of
Jeroboam king of Israel.
1Ch 5:18 The Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh had valiant men who carried shield and
sword, and drew the bow, expert in war, 44,760, able to go to war.
1Ch 5:19 They waged war against the Hagrites, Jetur, Naphish, and Nodab.
1Ch 5:20 And when they prevailed over them, the Hagrites and all who were with them were given into their
hands, for they cried out to God in the battle, and he granted their urgent plea because they trusted in him.
1Ch 5:21 They carried off their livestock: 50,000 of their camels, 250,000 sheep, 2,000 donkeys, and 100,000
men alive.
1Ch 5:22 For many fell, because the war was of God. And they lived in their place until the exile.
1Ch 5:23 The members of the half-tribe of Manasseh lived in the land. They were very numerous from Bashan
to Baal-hermon, Senir, and Mount Hermon.
1Ch 5:24 These were the heads of their fathers' houses: Epher, Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremiah, Hodaviah, and
Jahdiel, mighty warriors, famous men, heads of their fathers' houses.
1Ch 5:25 But they broke faith with the God of their fathers, and whored after the gods of the peoples of the land,
whom God had destroyed before them.
1Ch 5:26 So the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of Assyria, the spirit of Tiglath-pileser king of
Assyria, and he took them into exile, namely, the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, and
brought them to Halah, Habor, Hara, and the river Gozan, to this day.
1Ch 6:1 The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
1Ch 6:2 The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel.
1Ch 6:3 The children of Amram: Aaron, Moses, and Miriam. The sons of Aaron: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and
Ithamar.
1Ch 6:4 Eleazar fathered Phinehas, Phinehas fathered Abishua,
1Ch 6:5 Abishua fathered Bukki, Bukki fathered Uzzi,
1Ch 6:6 Uzzi fathered Zerahiah, Zerahiah fathered Meraioth,
1Ch 6:7 Meraioth fathered Amariah, Amariah fathered Ahitub,
1Ch 6:8 Ahitub fathered Zadok, Zadok fathered Ahimaaz,
1Ch 6:9 Ahimaaz fathered Azariah, Azariah fathered Johanan,
1Ch 6:10 and Johanan fathered Azariah ( it was he who served as priest in the house that Solomon built in
Jerusalem).
1Ch 6:11 Azariah fathered Amariah, Amariah fathered Ahitub,
1Ch 6:12 Ahitub fathered Zadok, Zadok fathered Shallum,
1Ch 6:13 Shallum fathered Hilkiah, Hilkiah fathered Azariah,
1Ch 6:14 Azariah fathered Seraiah, Seraiah fathered Jehozadak;1Ch 6:15 and Jehozadak went into exile when the LORD sent Judah and Jerusalem into exile by the hand of
Nebuchadnezzar.
1Ch 6:16 The sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merari.
1Ch 6:17 And these are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei.
1Ch 6:18 The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel.
1Ch 6:19 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the clans of the Levites according to their fathers.
1Ch 6:20 Of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,
1Ch 6:21 Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeatherai his son.
1Ch 6:22 The sons of Kohath: Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son,
1Ch 6:23 Elkanah his son, Ebiasaph his son, Assir his son,
1Ch 6:24 Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son.
1Ch 6:25 The sons of Elkanah: Amasai and Ahimoth,
1Ch 6:26 Elkanah his son, Zophai his son, Nahath his son,
1Ch 6:27 Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son.
1Ch 6:28 The sons of Samuel: Joel his firstborn, the second Abijah.
1Ch 6:29 The sons of Merari: Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzzah his son,
1Ch 6:30 Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, and Asaiah his son.
1Ch 6:31 These are the men whom David put in charge of the service of song in the house of the LORD after
the ark rested there.
1Ch 6:32 They ministered with song before the tabernacle of the tent of meeting until Solomon built the house of
the LORD in Jerusalem, and they performed their service according to their order.
1Ch 6:33 These are the men who served and their sons. Of the sons of the Kohathites: Heman the singer the
son of Joel, son of Samuel,
1Ch 6:34 son of Elkanah, son of Jeroham, son of Eliel, son of Toah,
1Ch 6:35 son of Zuph, son of Elkanah, son of Mahath, son of Amasai,
1Ch 6:36 son of Elkanah, son of Joel, son of Azariah, son of Zephaniah,
1Ch 6:37 son of Tahath, son of Assir, son of Ebiasaph, son of Korah,
1Ch 6:38 son of Izhar, son of Kohath, son of Levi, son of Israel;
1Ch 6:39 and his brother Asaph, who stood on his right hand, namely, Asaph the son of Berechiah, son of
Shimea,
1Ch 6:40 son of Michael, son of Baaseiah, son of Malchi-jah,
1Ch 6:41 son of Ethni, son of Zerah, son of Adaiah,
1Ch 6:42 son of Ethan, son of Zim-mah, son of Shimei,
1Ch 6:43 son of Jahath, son of Gershom, son of Levi.
1Ch 6:44 On the left hand were their brothers, the sons of Merari: Ethan the son of Kishi, son of Abdi, son of
Malluch,
1Ch 6:45 son of Hashabiah, son of Amaziah, son of Hilkiah,
1Ch 6:46 son of Amzi, son of Bani, son of Shemer,
1Ch 6:47 son of Mahli, son of Mushi, son of Merari, son of Levi.
1Ch 6:48 And their brothers the Levites were appointed for all the service of the tabernacle of the house of God.
1Ch 6:49 But Aaron and his sons made offerings on the altar of burnt offering and on the altar of incense for all
the work of the Most Holy Place, and to make atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of
God had commanded.
1Ch 6:50 These are the sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son,
1Ch 6:51 Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son,
1Ch 6:52 Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,
1Ch 6:53 Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.
1Ch 6:54 These are their dwelling places according to their settlements within their borders: to the sons of
Aaron of the clans of Kohathites, for theirs was the first lot,
1Ch 6:55 to them they gave Hebron in the land of Judah and its surrounding pasturelands,
1Ch 6:56 but the fields of the city and its villages they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
1Ch 6:57 To the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of refuge: Hebron, Libnah with its pasturelands, Jattir,
Eshtemoa with its pasturelands,
1Ch 6:58 Hilen with its pasturelands, Debir with its pasturelands,
1Ch 6:59 Ashan with its pasturelands, and Beth-shemesh with its pasturelands;
1Ch 6:60 and from the tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon, Geba with its pasturelands, Alemeth with its pasturelands,
and Anathoth with its pasturelands. All their cities throughout their clans were thirteen.
1Ch 6:61 To the rest of the Kohathites were given by lot out of the clan of the tribe, out of the half-tribe, the half
of Manasseh, ten cities.1Ch 6:62 To the Gershomites according to their clans were allotted thirteen cities out of the tribes of Issachar,
Asher, Naphtali and Manasseh in Bashan.
1Ch 6:63 To the Merarites according to their clans were allotted twelve cities out of the tribes of Reuben, Gad
and Zebulun.
1Ch 6:64 So the people of Israel gave the Levites the cities with their pasturelands.
1Ch 6:65 They gave by lot out of the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin these cities that are mentioned by
name.
1Ch 6:66 And some of the clans of the sons of Kohath had cities of their territory out of the tribe of Ephraim.
1Ch 6:67 They were given the cities of refuge: Shechem with its pasturelands in the hill country of Ephraim,
Gezer with its pasturelands,
1Ch 6:68 Jokmeam with its pasturelands, Beth-horon with its pasturelands,
1Ch 6:69 Aijalon with its pasturelands, Gath-rimmon with its pasturelands,
1Ch 6:70 and out of the half-tribe of Manasseh, Aner with its pasturelands, and Bileam with its pasturelands, for
the rest of the clans of the Kohathites.
1Ch 6:71 To the Gershomites were given out of the clan of the half-tribe of Manasseh: Golan in Bashan with its
pasturelands and Ashtaroth with its pasturelands;
1Ch 6:72 and out of the tribe of Issachar: Kedesh with its pasturelands, Daberath with its pasturelands,
1Ch 6:73 Ramoth with its pasturelands, and Anem with its pasturelands;
1Ch 6:74 out of the tribe of Asher: Mashal with its pasturelands, Abdon with its pasturelands,
1Ch 6:75 Hukok with its pasturelands, and Rehob with its pasturelands;
1Ch 6:76 and out of the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee with its pasturelands, Hammon with its
pasturelands, and Kiriathaim with its pasturelands.
1Ch 6:77 To the rest of the Merarites were allotted out of the tribe of Zebulun: Rimmono with its pasturelands,
Tabor with its pasturelands,
1Ch 6:78 and beyond the Jordan at Jericho, on the east side of the Jordan, out of the tribe of Reuben: Bezer in
the wilderness with its pasturelands, Jahzah with its pasturelands,
1Ch 6:79 Ked-emoth with its pasturelands, and Mephaath with its pasturelands;
1Ch 6:80 and out of the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead with its pasturelands, Maha-naim with its pasturelands,
1Ch 6:81 Heshbon with its pasturelands, and Jazer with its pasturelands.
1Ch 7:1 The sons of Issachar: Tola, Puah, Jashub, and Shimron, four.
1Ch 7:2 The sons of Tola: Uzzi, Rephaiah, Jeriel, Jahmai, Ibsam, and Shemuel, heads of their fathers' houses,
namely of Tola, mighty warriors of their generations, their number in the days of David being 22,600.
1Ch 7:3 The son of Uzzi: Izrahiah. And the sons of Izrahiah: Michael, Obadiah, Joel, and Isshiah, all five of them
were chief men.
1Ch 7:4 And along with them, by their generations, according to their fathers' houses, were units of the army for
war, 36,000, for they had many wives and sons.
1Ch 7:5 Their kinsmen belonging to all the clans of Issachar were in all 87,000 mighty warriors, enrolled by
genealogy.
1Ch 7:6 The sons of Benjamin: Bela, Becher, and Jediael, three.
1Ch 7:7 The sons of Bela: Ezbon, Uzzi, Uzziel, Jerimoth, and Iri, five, heads of fathers' houses, mighty warriors.
And their enrollment by genealogies was 22,034.
1Ch 7:8 The sons of Becher: Zemirah, Joash, Eliezer, Elioenai, Omri, Jeremoth, Abijah, Anathoth, and Alemeth.
All these were the sons of Becher.
1Ch 7:9 And their enrollment by genealogies, according to their generations, as heads of their fathers' houses,
mighty warriors, was 22,200.
1Ch 7:10 The son of Jediael: Bilhan. And the sons of Bilhan: Jeush, Benjamin, Ehud, Che-naanah, Zethan,
Tarshish, and Ahish-ahar.
1Ch 7:11 All these were the sons of Jediael according to the heads of their fathers' houses, mighty warriors,
17,200, able to go to war.
1Ch 7:12 And Shuppim and Huppim were the sons of Ir, Hushim the son of Aher.
1Ch 7:13 The sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, Guni, Jezer and Shallum, the descendants of Bilhah.
1Ch 7:14 The sons of Manasseh: Asriel, whom his Aramean concubine bore; she bore Machir the father of
Gilead.
1Ch 7:15 And Machir took a wife for Huppim and for Shuppim. The name of his sister was Maacah. And the
name of the second was Zelophehad, and Zelophehad had daughters.
1Ch 7:16 And Maacah the wife of Machir bore a son, and she called his name Peresh; and the name of his
brother was Sheresh; and his sons were Ulam and Rakem.
1Ch 7:17 The son of Ulam: Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead the son of Machir, son of Manasseh.
1Ch 7:18 And his sister Hammolecheth bore Ishhod, Abiezer and Mahlah.1Ch 7:19 The sons of Shemida were Ahian, Shechem, Likhi, and Aniam.
1Ch 7:20 The sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah, and Bered his son, Tahath his son, Ele-adah his son, Tahath his
son,
1Ch 7:21 Zabad his son, Shuthelah his son, and Ezer and Elead, whom the men of Gath who were born in the
land killed, because they came down to raid their livestock.
1Ch 7:22 And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brothers came to comfort him.
1Ch 7:23 And Ephraim went in to his wife, and she conceived and bore a son. And he called his name Beriah,
because disaster had befallen his house.
1Ch 7:24 His daughter was Sheerah, who built both Lower and Upper Beth-horon, and Uzzen-sheerah.
1Ch 7:25 Rephah was his son, Resheph his son, Telah his son, Tahan his son,
1Ch 7:26 Ladan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,
1Ch 7:27 Nun his son, Joshua his son.
1Ch 7:28 Their possessions and settlements were Bethel and its towns, and to the east Naaran, and to the west
Gezer and its towns, Shechem and its towns, and Ayyah and its towns;
1Ch 7:29 also in possession of the Manassites, Beth-shean and its towns, Taanach and its towns, Megiddo and
its towns, Dor and its towns. In these lived the sons of Joseph the son of Israel.
1Ch 7:30 The sons of Asher: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Beriah, and their sister Serah.
1Ch 7:31 The sons of Beriah: Heber, and Malchiel, who fathered Birzaith.
1Ch 7:32 Heber fathered Japhlet, Shomer, Hotham, and their sister Shua.
1Ch 7:33 The sons of Japhlet: Pasach, Bimhal, and Ashvath. These are the sons of Japhlet.
1Ch 7:34 The sons of Shemer his brother: Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram.
1Ch 7:35 The sons of Helem his brother: Zophah, Imna, Shelesh, and Amal.
1Ch 7:36 The sons of Zophah: Suah, Harnepher, Shual, Beri, Imrah.
1Ch 7:37 Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran, and Beera.
1Ch 7:38 The sons of Jether: Jephunneh, Pispa, and Ara.
1Ch 7:39 The sons of Ulla: Arah, Hanniel, and Rizia.
1Ch 7:40 All of these were men of Asher, heads of fathers' houses, approved, mighty warriors, chiefs of the
princes. Their number enrolled by genealogies, for service in war, was 26,000 men.
1Ch 8:1 Benjamin fathered Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second, Aharah the third,
1Ch 8:2 Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
1Ch 8:3 And Bela had sons: Addar, Gera, Abihud,
1Ch 8:4 Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah,
1Ch 8:5 Gera, Shephu-phan, and Huram.
1Ch 8:6 These are the sons of Ehud (they were heads of fathers' houses of the inhabitants of Geba, and they
were carried into exile to Manahath):
1Ch 8:7 Naaman, Ahijah, and Gera, that is, Heglam, who fathered Uzza and Ahihud.
1Ch 8:8 And Shaharaim fathered sons in the country of Moab after he had sent away Hushim and Baara his
wives.
1Ch 8:9 He fathered sons by Hodesh his wife: Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam,
1Ch 8:10 Jeuz, Sachia, and Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of fathers' houses.
1Ch 8:11 He also fathered sons by Hushim: Abitub and Elpaal.
1Ch 8:12 The sons of Elpaal: Eber, Misham, and Shemed, who built Ono and Lod with its towns,
1Ch 8:13 and Beriah and Shema (they were heads of fathers' houses of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who caused
the inhabitants of Gath to flee);
1Ch 8:14 and Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth.
1Ch 8:15 Zebadiah, Arad, Eder,
1Ch 8:16 Michael, Ishpah, and Joha were sons of Beriah.
1Ch 8:17 Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber,
1Ch 8:18 Ishmerai, Izliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal.
1Ch 8:19 Jakim, Zichri, Zabdi,
1Ch 8:20 Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel,
1Ch 8:21 Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei.
1Ch 8:22 Ishpan, Eber, Eliel,
1Ch 8:23 Abdon, Zichri, Hanan,
1Ch 8:24 Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah,
1Ch 8:25 Iphdeiah, and Penuel were the sons of Shashak.
1Ch 8:26 Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah,
1Ch 8:27 Jaareshiah, Elijah, and Zichri were the sons of Jeroham.
1Ch 8:28 These were the heads of fathers' houses, according to their generations, chief men. These lived inJerusalem.
1Ch 8:29 , Jeiel the father of Gibeon lived in Gibeon, and the name of his wife was Maacah.
1Ch 8:30 His firstborn son: Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Nadab,
1Ch 8:31 Gedor, Ahio, Zecher,
1Ch 8:32 and Mikloth (he fathered Shimeah). Now these also lived opposite their kinsmen in Jerusalem, with
their kinsmen.
1Ch 8:33 Ner was the father of Kish, Kish of Saul, Saul of Jonathan, Malchi-shua, Abinadab and Eshbaal;
1Ch 8:34 and the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal; and Merib-baal was the father of Micah.
1Ch 8:35 The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz.
1Ch 8:36 Ahaz fathered Jehoaddah, and Je-hoaddah fathered Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. Zimri fathered
Moza.
1Ch 8:37 Moza fathered Binea; Raphah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
1Ch 8:38 Azel had six sons, and these are their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and
Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.
1Ch 8:39 The sons of Eshek his brother: Ulam his firstborn, Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third.
1Ch 8:40 The sons of Ulam were men who were mighty warriors, bowmen, having many sons and grandsons,
150. All these were Benjaminites.
1Ch 9:1 So all Israel was recorded in genealogies, and these are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel. And
Judah was taken into exile in Babylon because of their breach of faith.
1Ch 9:2 Now the first to dwell again in their possessions in their cities were Israel, the priests, the Levites, and
the temple servants.
1Ch 9:3 And some of the people of Judah, Benjamin, Ephraim, and Manasseh lived in Jerusalem:
1Ch 9:4 Uthai the son of Ammihud, son of Omri, son of Imri, son of Bani, from the sons of Perez the son of
Judah.
1Ch 9:5 And of the Shilonites: Asaiah the firstborn, and his sons.
1Ch 9:6 Of the sons of Zerah: Jeuel and their kinsmen, 690.
1Ch 9:7 Of the Ben-jaminites: Sallu the son of Meshullam, son of Hodaviah, son of Hassenuah,
1Ch 9:8 Ibneiah the son of Jeroham, Elah the son of Uzzi, son of Michri, and Meshullam the son of Shephatiah,
son of Reuel, son of Ibnijah;
1Ch 9:9 and their kinsmen according to their generations, 956. All these were heads of fathers' houses
according to their fathers' houses.
1Ch 9:10 Of the priests: Jedaiah, Jehoiarib, Jachin,
1Ch 9:11 and Azariah the son of Hilkiah, son of Meshullam, son of Zadok, son of Meraioth, son of Ahitub, the
chief officer of the house of God;
1Ch 9:12 and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, son of Pashhur, son of Malchijah, and Maasai the son of Adiel, son of
Jahzerah, son of Meshullam, son of Meshillemith, son of Immer;
1Ch 9:13 besides their kinsmen, heads of their fathers' houses, 1,760, mighty men for the work of the service of
the house of God.
1Ch 9:14 Of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, son of Azrikam, son of Hashabiah, of the sons of
Merari;
1Ch 9:15 and Bakbakkar, Heresh, Galal and Mattaniah the son of Mica, son of Zichri, son of Asaph;
1Ch 9:16 and Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, son of Galal, son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah the son of Asa, son
of Elkanah, who lived in the villages of the Netophathites.
1Ch 9:17 The gatekeepers were Shallum, Akkub, Talmon, Ahiman, and their kinsmen (Shallum was the chief);
1Ch 9:18 until then they were in the king's gate on the east side as the gatekeepers of the camps of the Levites.
1Ch 9:19 Shallum the son of Kore, son of Ebiasaph, son of Korah, and his kinsmen of his fathers' house, the
Korahites, were in charge of the work of the service, keepers of the thresholds of the tent, as their fathers had
been in charge of the camp of the LORD, keepers of the entrance.
1Ch 9:20 And Phinehas the son of Eleazar was the chief officer over them in time past; the LORD was with him.
1Ch 9:21 Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was gatekeeper at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
1Ch 9:22 All these, who were chosen as gatekeepers at the thresholds, were 212. They were enrolled by
genealogies in their villages. David and Samuel the seer established them in their office of trust.
1Ch 9:23 So they and their sons were in charge of the gates of the house of the LORD, that is, the house of the
tent, as guards.
1Ch 9:24 The gatekeepers were on the four sides, east, west, north, and south.
1Ch 9:25 And their kinsmen who were in their villages were obligated to come in every seven days, in turn, to
be with these,
1Ch 9:26 for the four chief gatekeepers, who were Levites, were entrusted to be over the chambers and the
treasures of the house of God.1Ch 9:27 And they lodged around the house of God, for on them lay the duty of watching, and they had charge
of opening it every morning.
1Ch 9:28 Some of them had charge of the utensils of service, for they were required to count them when they
were brought in and taken out.
1Ch 9:29 Others of them were appointed over the furniture and over all the holy utensils, also over the fine flour,
the wine, the oil, the incense, and the spices.
1Ch 9:30 Others, of the sons of the priests, prepared the mixing of the spices,
1Ch 9:31 and Mattithiah, one of the Levites, the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite, was entrusted with making the
flat cakes.
1Ch 9:32 Also some of their kinsmen of the Kohathites had charge of the showbread, to prepare it every
Sabbath.
1Ch 9:33 Now these, the singers, the heads of fathers' houses of the Levites, were in the chambers of the
temple free from other service, for they were on duty day and night.
1Ch 9:34 These were heads of fathers' houses of the Levites, according to their generations, leaders. These
lived in Jerusalem.
1Ch 9:35 In Gibeon lived the father of Gibeon, Jeiel, and the name of his wife was Maacah,
1Ch 9:36 and his firstborn son Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab,
1Ch 9:37 Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah, and Mikloth;
1Ch 9:38 and Mikloth was the father of Shimeam; and these also lived opposite their kinsmen in Jerusalem, with
their kinsmen.
1Ch 9:39 Ner fathered Kish, Kish fathered Saul, Saul fathered Jonathan, Malchi-shua, Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
1Ch 9:40 And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal, and Merib-baal fathered Micah.
1Ch 9:41 The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tahrea, and Ahaz.
1Ch 9:42 And Ahaz fathered Jarah, and Jarah fathered Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. And Zimri fathered
Moza.
1Ch 9:43 Moza fathered Binea, and Rephaiah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
1Ch 9:44 Azel had six sons and these are their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and
Hanan; these were the sons of Azel.
1Ch 10:1 Now the Philistines fought against Israel, and the men of Israel fled before the Philistines and fell slain
on Mount Gilboa.
1Ch 10:2 And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons, and the Philistines struck down Jonathan and
Abinadab and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
1Ch 10:3 The battle pressed hard against Saul, and the archers found him, and he was wounded by the
archers.
1Ch 10:4 Then Saul said to his armor-bearer, "Draw your sword and thrust me through with it, lest these
uncircumcised come and mistreat me." But his armor-bearer would not, for he feared greatly. Therefore Saul
took his own sword and fell upon it.
1Ch 10:5 And when his armor-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell upon his sword and died.
1Ch 10:6 Thus Saul died; he and his three sons and all his house died together.
1Ch 10:7 And when all the men of Israel who were in the valley saw that the army had fled and that Saul and his
sons were dead, they abandoned their cities and fled, and the Philistines came and lived in them.
1Ch 10:8 The next day, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, they found Saul and his sons fallen on
Mount Gilboa.
1Ch 10:9 And they stripped him and took his head and his armor, and sent messengers throughout the land of
the Philistines to carry the good news to their idols and to the people.
1Ch 10:10 And they put his armor in the temple of their gods and fastened his head in the temple of Dagon.
1Ch 10:11 But when all Jabesh-gilead heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul,
1Ch 10:12 all the valiant men arose and took away the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons, and brought
them to Jabesh. And they buried their bones under the oak in Jabesh and fasted seven days.
1Ch 10:13 So Saul died for his breach of faith. He broke faith with the LORD in that he did not keep the
command of the LORD, and also consulted a medium, seeking guidance.
1Ch 10:14 He did not seek guidance from the LORD. Therefore the LORD put him to death and turned the
kingdom over to David the son of Jesse.
1Ch 11:1 Then all Israel gathered together to David at Hebron and said, "Behold, we are your bone and flesh.
1Ch 11:2 In times past, even when Saul was king, it was you who led out and brought in Israel. And the LORD
your God said to you, 'You shall be shepherd of my people Israel, and you shall be prince over my people
Israel.'"
1Ch 11:3 So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and David made a covenant with them at
Hebron before the LORD. And they anointed David king over Israel, according to the word of the LORD bySamuel.
1Ch 11:4 And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem, that is Jebus, where the Jebusites were, the inhabitants of
the land.
1Ch 11:5 The inhabitants of Jebus said to David, "You will not come in here." Nevertheless, David took the
stronghold of Zion, that is, the city of David.
1Ch 11:6 David said, "Whoever strikes the Jebusites first shall be chief and commander." And Joab the son of
Zeruiah went up first, so he became chief.
1Ch 11:7 And David lived in the stronghold; therefore it was called the city of David.
1Ch 11:8 And he built the city all around from the Millo in complete circuit, and Joab repaired the rest of the city.
1Ch 11:9 And David became greater and greater, for the LORD of hosts was with him.
1Ch 11:10 Now these are the chiefs of David's mighty men, who gave him strong support in his kingdom,
together with all Israel, to make him king, according to the word of the LORD concerning Israel.
1Ch 11:11 This is an account of David's mighty men: Jashobeam, a Hachmonite, was chief of the three. He
wielded his spear against 300 whom he killed at one time.
1Ch 11:12 And next to him among the three mighty men was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite.
1Ch 11:13 He was with David at Pas-dammim when the Philistines were gathered there for battle. There was a
plot of ground full of barley, and the men fled from the Philistines.
1Ch 11:14 But he took his stand in the midst of the plot and defended it and killed the Philistines. And the LORD
saved them by a great victory.
1Ch 11:15 Three of the thirty chief men went down to the rock to David at the cave of Adullam, when the army
of Philistines was encamped in the Valley of Rephaim.
1Ch 11:16 David was then in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was then at Bethlehem.
1Ch 11:17 And David said longingly, "Oh that someone would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem
that is by the gate!"
1Ch 11:18 Then the three mighty men broke through the camp of the Philistines and drew water out of the well
of Bethlehem that was by the gate and took it and brought it to David. But David would not drink it. He poured it
out to the LORD
1Ch 11:19 and said, "Far be it from me before my God that I should do this. Shall I drink the lifeblood of these
men? For at the risk of their lives they brought it." Therefore he would not drink it. These things did the three
mighty men.
1Ch 11:20 Now Abishai, the brother of Joab, was chief of the thirty. And he wielded his spear against 300 men
and killed them and won a name beside the three.
1Ch 11:21 He was the most renowned of the thirty and became their commander, but he did not attain to the
three.
1Ch 11:22 And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was a valiant man of Kabzeel, a doer of great deeds. He struck
down two heroes of Moab. He also went down and struck down a lion in a pit on a day when snow had fallen.
1Ch 11:23 And he struck down an Egyptian, a man of great stature, five cubits tall. The Egyptian had in his
hand a spear like a weaver's beam, but Benaiah went down to him with a staff and snatched the spear out of the
Egyptian's hand and killed him with his own spear.
1Ch 11:24 These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada and won a name beside the three mighty men.
1Ch 11:25 He was renowned among the thirty, but he did not attain to the three. And David set him over his
bodyguard.
1Ch 11:26 The mighty men were Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem,
1Ch 11:27 Shammoth of Harod, Helez the Pelonite,
1Ch 11:28 Ira the son of Ikkesh of Tekoa, Abiezer of Anathoth,
1Ch 11:29 Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite,
1Ch 11:30 Maharai of Netophah, Heled the son of Baanah of Netophah,
1Ch 11:31 Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the people of Benjamin, Benaiah of Pirathon,
1Ch 11:32 Hurai of the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,
1Ch 11:33 Azmaveth of Baharum, Eliahba the Shaalbonite,
1Ch 11:34 Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan the son of Shagee the Hararite,
1Ch 11:35 Ahiam the son of Sachar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur,
1Ch 11:36 Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite,
1Ch 11:37 Hezro of Carmel, Naarai the son of Ezbai,
1Ch 11:38 Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of Hagri,
1Ch 11:39 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai of Beeroth, the armor-bearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah,
1Ch 11:40 Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,
1Ch 11:41 Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai,
1Ch 11:42 Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a leader of the Reubenites, and thirty with him,1Ch 11:43 Hanan the son of Maacah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite,
1Ch 11:44 Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jeiel the sons of Hotham the Aroerite,
1Ch 11:45 Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his brother, the Tizite,
1Ch 11:46 Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite,
1Ch 11:47 Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel the Mezobaite.
1Ch 12:1 Now these are the men who came to David at Ziklag, while he could not move about freely because of
Saul the son of Kish. And they were among the mighty men who helped him in war.
1Ch 12:2 They were bowmen and could shoot arrows and sling stones with either the right or the left hand; they
were Benjaminites, Saul's kinsmen.
1Ch 12:3 The chief was Ahiezer, then Joash, both sons of Shemaah of Gibeah; also Jeziel and Pelet, the sons
of Azmaveth; Beracah, Jehu of Anathoth,
1Ch 12:4 Ishmaiah of Gibeon, a mighty man among the thirty and a leader over the thirty; Jeremiah, Jahaziel,
Johanan, Jozabad of Gederah,
1Ch 12:5 Eluzai, Jerimoth, Bealiah, Shemariah, Shephatiah the Haruphite;
1Ch 12:6 Elkanah, Isshiah, Azarel, Joezer, and Jashobeam, the Korahites;
1Ch 12:7 And Joelah and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham of Gedor.
1Ch 12:8 From the Gadites there went over to David at the stronghold in the wilderness mighty and experienced
warriors, expert with shield and spear, whose faces were like the faces of lions and who were swift as gazelles
upon the mountains:
1Ch 12:9 Ezer the chief, Obadiah second, Eliab third,
1Ch 12:10 Mishmannah fourth, Jeremiah fifth,
1Ch 12:11 Attai sixth, Eliel seventh,
1Ch 12:12 Johanan eighth, Elzabad ninth,
1Ch 12:13 Jeremiah tenth, Machbannai eleventh.
1Ch 12:14 These Gadites were officers of the army; the least was a match for a hundred men and the greatest
for a thousand.
1Ch 12:15 These are the men who crossed the Jordan in the first month, when it was overflowing all its banks,
and put to flight all those in the valleys, to the east and to the west.
1Ch 12:16 And some of the men of Benjamin and Judah came to the stronghold to David.
1Ch 12:17 David went out to meet them and said to them, "If you have come to me in friendship to help me, my
heart will be joined to you; but if to betray me to my adversaries, although there is no wrong in my hands, then
may the God of our fathers see and rebuke you."
1Ch 12:18 Then the Spirit clothed Amasai, chief of the thirty, and he said, "We are yours, O David, and with you,
O son of Jesse! Peace, peace to you, and peace to your helpers! For your God helps you." Then David received
them and made them officers of his troops.
1Ch 12:19 Some of the men of Manasseh deserted to David when he came with the Philistines for the battle
against Saul. (Yet he did not help them, for the rulers of the Philistines took counsel and sent him away, saying,
"At peril to our heads he will desert to his master Saul.")
1Ch 12:20 As he went to Ziklag, these men of Manasseh deserted to him: Adnah, Jozabad, Jediael, Michael,
Jozabad, Elihu, and Zillethai, chiefs of thousands in Manasseh.
1Ch 12:21 They helped David against the band of raiders, for they were all mighty men of valor and were
commanders in the army.
1Ch 12:22 For from day to day men came to David to help him, until there was a great army, like an army of
God.
1Ch 12:23 These are the numbers of the divisions of the armed troops who came to David in Hebron to turn the
kingdom of Saul over to him, according to the word of the LORD.
1Ch 12:24 The men of Judah bearing shield and spear were 6,800 armed troops.
1Ch 12:25 Of the Simeonites, mighty men of valor for war, 7,100.
1Ch 12:26 Of the Levites 4,600.
1Ch 12:27 The prince Jehoiada, of the house of Aaron, and with him 3,700.
1Ch 12:28 Zadok, a young man mighty in valor, and twenty-two commanders from his own fathers' house.
1Ch 12:29 Of the Benjaminites, the kinsmen of Saul, 3,000, of whom the majority had to that point kept their
allegiance to the house of Saul.
1Ch 12:30 Of the Ephraimites 20,800, mighty men of valor, famous men in their fathers' houses.
1Ch 12:31 Of the half-tribe of Manasseh 18,000, who were expressly named to come and make David king.
1Ch 12:32 Of Issachar, men who had understanding of the times, to know what Israel ought to do, 200 chiefs,
and all their kinsmen under their command.
1Ch 12:33 Of Zebulun 50,000 seasoned troops, equipped for battle with all the weapons of war, to help David
with singleness of purpose.1Ch 12:34 Of Naphtali 1,000 commanders with whom were 37,000 men armed with shield and spear.
1Ch 12:35 Of the Danites 28,600 men equipped for battle.
1Ch 12:36 Of Asher 40,000 seasoned troops ready for battle.
1Ch 12:37 Of the Reubenites and Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh from beyond the Jordan, 120,000
men armed with all the weapons of war.
1Ch 12:38 All these, men of war, arrayed in battle order, came to Hebron with full intent to make David king over
all Israel. Likewise, all the rest of Israel were of a single mind to make David king.
1Ch 12:39 And they were there with David for three days, eating and drinking, for their brothers had made
preparation for them.
1Ch 12:40 And also their relatives, from as far as Issachar and Zebulun and Naphtali, came bringing food on
donkeys and on camels and on mules and on oxen, abundant provisions of flour, cakes of figs, clusters of
raisins, and wine and oil, oxen and sheep, for there was joy in Israel.
1Ch 13:1 David consulted with the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, with every leader.
1Ch 13:2 And David said to all the assembly of Israel, "If it seems good to you and from the LORD our God, let
us send abroad to our brothers who remain in all the lands of Israel, as well as to the priests and Levites in the
cities that have pasturelands, that they may be gathered to us.
1Ch 13:3 Then let us bring again the ark of our God to us, for we did not seek it in the days of Saul."
1Ch 13:4 All the assembly agreed to do so, for the thing was right in the eyes of all the people.
1Ch 13:5 So David assembled all Israel from the Nile of Egypt to Lebo-hamath, to bring the ark of God from
Kiriath-jearim.
1Ch 13:6 And David and all Israel went up to Baalah, that is, to Kiriath-jearim that belongs to Judah, to bring up
from there the ark of God, which is called by the name of the LORD who sits enthroned above the cherubim.
1Ch 13:7 And they carried the ark of God on a new cart, from the house of Abinadab, and Uzzah and Ahio were
driving the cart.
1Ch 13:8 And David and all Israel were rejoicing before God with all their might, with song and lyres and harps
and tambourines and cymbals and trumpets.
1Ch 13:9 And when they came to the threshing floor of Chidon, Uzzah put out his hand to take hold of the ark,
for the oxen stumbled.
1Ch 13:10 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzzah, and he struck him down because he put out
his hand to the ark, and he died there before God.
1Ch 13:11 And David was angry because the LORD had broken out against Uzzah. And that place is called
Perez-uzza to this day.
1Ch 13:12 And David was afraid of God that day, and he said, "How can I bring the ark of God home to me?"
1Ch 13:13 So David did not take the ark home into the city of David, but took it aside to the house of Obededom the Gittite.
1Ch 13:14 And the ark of God remained with the household of Obed-edom in his house three months. And the
LORD blessed the household of Obed-edom and all that he had.
1Ch 14:1 And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar trees, also masons and carpenters to
build a house for him.
1Ch 14:2 And David knew that the LORD had established him as king over Israel, and that his kingdom was
highly exalted for the sake of his people Israel.
1Ch 14:3 And David took more wives in Jerusalem, and David fathered more sons and daughters.
1Ch 14:4 These are the names of the children born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon,
1Ch 14:5 Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet,
1Ch 14:6 Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia,
1Ch 14:7 Elishama, Beeliada and Eliphelet.
1Ch 14:8 When the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over all Israel, all the Philistines went
up to search for David. But David heard of it and went out against them.
1Ch 14:9 Now the Philistines had come and made a raid in the Valley of Rephaim.
1Ch 14:10 And David inquired of God, "Shall I go up against the Philistines? Will you give them into my hand?"
And the LORD said to him, "Go up, and I will give them into your hand."
1Ch 14:11 And he went up to Baal-perazim, and David struck them down there. And David said, "God has
broken through my enemies by my hand, like a bursting flood." Therefore the name of that place is called Baalperazim.
1Ch 14:12 And they left their gods there, and David gave command, and they were burned.
1Ch 14:13 And the Philistines yet again made a raid in the valley.
1Ch 14:14 And when David again inquired of God, God said to him, "You shall not go up after them; go around
and come against them opposite the balsam trees.
1Ch 14:15 And when you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the balsam trees, then go out to battle, forGod has gone out before you to strike down the army of the Philistines."
1Ch 14:16 And David did as God commanded him, and they struck down the Philistine army from Gibeon to
Gezer.
1Ch 14:17 And the fame of David went out into all lands, and the LORD brought the fear of him upon all nations.
1Ch 15:1 David built houses for himself in the city of David. And he prepared a place for the ark of God and
pitched a tent for it.
1Ch 15:2 Then David said that no one but the Levites may carry the ark of God, for the LORD had chosen them
to carry the ark of the LORD and to minister to him forever.
1Ch 15:3 And David assembled all Israel at Jerusalem to bring up the ark of the LORD to its place, which he
had prepared for it.
1Ch 15:4 And David gathered together the sons of Aaron and the Levites:
1Ch 15:5 of the sons of Kohath, Uriel the chief, with 120 of his brothers;
1Ch 15:6 of the sons of Merari, Asaiah the chief, with 220 of his brothers;
1Ch 15:7 of the sons of Gershom, Joel the chief, with 130 of his brothers;
1Ch 15:8 of the sons of Elizaphan, Shemaiah the chief, with 200 of his brothers;
1Ch 15:9 of the sons of Hebron, Eliel the chief, with 80 of his brothers;
1Ch 15:10 of the sons of Uzziel, Amminadab the chief, with 112 of his brothers.
1Ch 15:11 Then David summoned the priests Zadok and Abiathar, and the Levites Uriel, Asaiah, Joel,
Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab,
1Ch 15:12 and said to them, "You are the heads of the fathers' houses of the Levites. Consecrate yourselves,
you and your brothers, so that you may bring up the ark of the LORD, the God of Israel, to the place that I have
prepared for it.
1Ch 15:13 Because you did not carry it the first time, the LORD our God broke out against us, because we did
not seek him according to the rule."
1Ch 15:14 So the priests and the Levites consecrated themselves to bring up the ark of the LORD, the God of
Israel.
1Ch 15:15 And the Levites carried the ark of God on their shoulders with the poles, as Moses had commanded
according to the word of the LORD.
1Ch 15:16 David also commanded the chiefs of the Levites to appoint their brothers as the singers who should
play loudly on musical instruments, on harps and lyres and cymbals, to raise sounds of joy.
1Ch 15:17 So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel; and of his brothers Asaph the son of Berechiah;
and of the sons of Merari, their brothers, Ethan the son of Kushaiah;
1Ch 15:18 and with them their brothers of the second order, Zechariah, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni,
Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and the gatekeepers Obed-edom and Jeiel.
1Ch 15:19 The singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were to sound bronze cymbals;
1Ch 15:20 Zechariah, Aziel, Shemira-moth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah, and Benaiah were to play harps
according to Alamoth;
1Ch 15:21 but Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-edom, Jeiel, and Azaziah were to lead with lyres
according to the Sheminith.
1Ch 15:22 Chenaniah, leader of the Levites in music, should direct the music, for he understood it.
1Ch 15:23 Berechiah and Elka-nah were to be gatekeepers for the ark.
1Ch 15:24 Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, should blow
the trumpets before the ark of God. Obed-edom and Jehiah were to be gatekeepers for the ark.
1Ch 15:25 So David and the elders of Israel and the commanders of thousands went to bring up the ark of the
covenant of the LORD from the house of Obed-edom with rejoicing.
1Ch 15:26 And because God helped the Levites who were carrying the ark of the covenant of the LORD, they
sacrificed seven bulls and seven rams.
1Ch 15:27 David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, as also were all the Levites who were carrying the ark,
and the singers and Chenaniah the leader of the music of the singers. And David wore a linen ephod.
1Ch 15:28 So all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the LORD with shouting, to the sound of the horn,
trumpets, and cymbals, and made loud music on harps and lyres.
1Ch 15:29 And as the ark of the covenant of the LORD came to the city of David, Michal the daughter of Saul
looked out of the window and saw King David dancing and rejoicing, and she despised him in her heart.
1Ch 16:1 And they brought in the ark of God and set it inside the tent that David had pitched for it, and they
offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before God.
1Ch 16:2 And when David had finished offering the burnt offerings and the peace offerings, he blessed the
people in the name of the LORD
1Ch 16:3 and distributed to all Israel, both men and women, to each a loaf of bread, a portion of meat, and a
cake of raisins.1Ch 16:4 Then he appointed some of the Levites as ministers before the ark of the LORD, to invoke, to thank,
and to praise the LORD, the God of Israel.
1Ch 16:5 Asaph was the chief, and second to him were Zechariah, Jeiel, Shemira-moth, Jehiel, Mattithiah,
Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-edom, and Jeiel, who were to play harps and lyres; Asaph was to sound the cymbals,
1Ch 16:6 and Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests were to blow trumpets regularly before the ark of the covenant of
God.
1Ch 16:7 Then on that day David first appointed that thanksgiving be sung to the LORD by Asaph and his
brothers.
1Ch 16:8 Oh give thanks to the LORD; call upon his name; make known his deeds among the peoples!
1Ch 16:9 Sing to him; sing praises to him; tell of all his wondrous works!
1Ch 16:10 Glory in his holy name; let the hearts of those who seek the LORD rejoice!
1Ch 16:11 Seek the LORD and his strength; seek his presence continually!
1Ch 16:12 Remember the wondrous works that he has done, his miracles and the judgments he uttered,
1Ch 16:13 O offspring of Israel his servant, sons of Jacob, his chosen ones!
1Ch 16:14 He is the LORD our God; his judgments are in all the earth.
1Ch 16:15 Remember his covenant forever, the word that he commanded, for a thousand generations,
1Ch 16:16 the covenant that he made with Abraham, his sworn promise to Isaac,
1Ch 16:17 which he confirmed as a statute to Jacob, as an everlasting covenant to Israel,
1Ch 16:18 saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan, as your portion for an inheritance."
1Ch 16:19 When you were few in number, and of little account, and sojourners in it,
1Ch 16:20 wandering from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another people,
1Ch 16:21 he allowed no one to oppress them; he rebuked kings on their account,
1Ch 16:22 saying, "Touch not my anointed ones, do my prophets no harm!"
1Ch 16:23 Sing to the LORD, all the earth! Tell of his salvation from day to day.
1Ch 16:24 Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous works among all the peoples!
1Ch 16:25 For great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised, and he is to be held in awe above all gods.
1Ch 16:26 For all the gods of the peoples are idols, but the LORD made the heavens.
1Ch 16:27 Splendor and majesty are before him; strength and joy are in his place.
1Ch 16:28 Ascribe to the LORD, O clans of the peoples, ascribe to the LORD glory and strength!
1Ch 16:29 Ascribe to the LORD the glory due his name; bring an offering and come before him! Worship the
LORD in the splendor of holiness;
1Ch 16:30 tremble before him, all the earth; yes, the world is established; it shall never be moved.
1Ch 16:31 Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice, and let them say among the nations, "The LORD
reigns!"
1Ch 16:32 Let the sea roar, and all that fills it; let the field exult, and everything in it!
1Ch 16:33 Then shall the trees of the forest sing for joy before the LORD, for he comes to judge the earth.
1Ch 16:34 Oh give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever!
1Ch 16:35 Say also: "Save us, O God of our salvation, and gather and deliver us from among the nations, that
we may give thanks to your holy name, and glory in your praise.
1Ch 16:36 Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting!" Then all the people said,
"Amen!" and praised the LORD.
1Ch 16:37 So David left Asaph and his brothers there before the ark of the covenant of the LORD to minister
regularly before the ark as each day required,
1Ch 16:38 and also Obed-edom and his sixty-eight brothers, while Obed-edom, the son of Jeduthun, and Hosah
were to be gatekeepers.
1Ch 16:39 And he left Zadok the priest and his brothers the priests before the tabernacle of the LORD in the
high place that was at Gibeon
1Ch 16:40 to offer burnt offerings to the LORD on the altar of burnt offering regularly morning and evening, to do
all that is written in the Law of the LORD that he commanded Israel.
1Ch 16:41 With them were Heman and Jeduthun and the rest of those chosen and expressly named to give
thanks to the LORD, for his steadfast love endures forever.
1Ch 16:42 Heman and Jeduthun had trumpets and cymbals for the music and instruments for sacred song. The
sons of Jeduthun were appointed to the gate.
1Ch 16:43 Then all the people departed each to his house, and David went home to bless his household.
1Ch 17:1 Now when David lived in his house, David said to Nathan the prophet, "Behold, I dwell in a house of
cedar, but the ark of the covenant of the LORD is under a tent."
1Ch 17:2 And Nathan said to David, "Do all that is in your heart, for God is with you."
1Ch 17:3 But that same night the word of the LORD came to Nathan,
1Ch 17:4 "Go and tell my servant David, 'Thus says the LORD: It is not you who will build me a house to dwellin.
1Ch 17:5 For I have not lived in a house since the day I brought up Israel to this day, but I have gone from tent
to tent and from dwelling to dwelling.
1Ch 17:6 In all places where I have moved with all Israel, did I speak a word with any of the judges of Israel,
whom I commanded to shepherd my people, saying, "Why have you not built me a house of cedar?"'
1Ch 17:7 Now, therefore, thus shall you say to my servant David, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, I took you from
the pasture, from following the sheep, to be prince over my people Israel,
1Ch 17:8 and I have been with you wherever you have gone and have cut off all your enemies from before you.
And I will make for you a name, like the name of the great ones of the earth.
1Ch 17:9 And I will appoint a place for my people Israel and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own
place and be disturbed no more. And violent men shall waste them no more, as formerly,
1Ch 17:10 from the time that I appointed judges over my people Israel. And I will subdue all your enemies.
Moreover, I declare to you that the LORD will build you a house.
1Ch 17:11 When your days are fulfilled to walk with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, one of
your own sons, and I will establish his kingdom.
1Ch 17:12 He shall build a house for me, and I will establish his throne forever.
1Ch 17:13 I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. I will not take my steadfast love from him, as I
took it from him who was before you,
1Ch 17:14 but I will confirm him in my house and in my kingdom forever, and his throne shall be established
forever.'"
1Ch 17:15 In accordance with all these words, and in accordance with all this vision, Nathan spoke to David.
1Ch 17:16 Then King David went in and sat before the LORD and said, "Who am I, O LORD God, and what is
my house, that you have brought me thus far?
1Ch 17:17 And this was a small thing in your eyes, O God. You have also spoken of your servant's house for a
great while to come, and have shown me future generations, O LORD God!
1Ch 17:18 And what more can David say to you for honoring your servant? For you know your servant.
1Ch 17:19 For your servant's sake, O LORD, and according to your own heart, you have done all this
greatness, in making known all these great things.
1Ch 17:20 There is none like you, O LORD, and there is no God besides you, according to all that we have
heard with our ears.
1Ch 17:21 And who is like your people Israel, the one nation on earth whom God went to redeem to be his
people, making for yourself a name for great and awesome things, in driving out nations before your people
whom you redeemed from Egypt?
1Ch 17:22 And you made your people Israel to be your people forever, and you, O LORD, became their God.
1Ch 17:23 And now, O LORD, let the word that you have spoken concerning your servant and concerning his
house be established forever, and do as you have spoken,
1Ch 17:24 and your name will be established and magnified forever, saying, 'The LORD of hosts, the God of
Israel, is Israel's God,' and the house of your servant David will be established before you.
1Ch 17:25 For you, my God, have revealed to your servant that you will build a house for him. Therefore your
servant has found courage to pray before you.
1Ch 17:26 And now, O LORD, you are God, and you have promised this good thing to your servant.
1Ch 17:27 Now you have been pleased to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue forever before
you, for it is you, O LORD, who have blessed, and it is blessed forever."
1Ch 18:1 After this David defeated the Philistines and subdued them, and he took Gath and its villages out of
the hand of the Philistines.
1Ch 18:2 And he defeated Moab, and the Moabites became servants to David and brought tribute.
1Ch 18:3 David also defeated Hadadezer king of Zobah-Hamath, as he went to set up his monument at the river
Euphrates.
1Ch 18:4 And David took from him 1,000 chariots, 7,000 horsemen and 20,000 foot soldiers. And David
hamstrung all the chariot horses, but left enough for 100 chariots.
1Ch 18:5 And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David struck down
22,000 men of the Syrians.
1Ch 18:6 Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus, and the Syrians became servants to David and
brought tribute. And the LORD gave victory to David wherever he went.
1Ch 18:7 And David took the shields of gold that were carried by the servants of Hadadezer and brought them
to Jerusalem.
1Ch 18:8 And from Tibhath and from Cun, cities of Hadadezer, David took a large amount of bronze. With it
Solomon made the bronze sea and the pillars and the vessels of bronze.
1Ch 18:9 When Tou king of Hamath heard that David had defeated the whole army of Hadadezer, king ofZobah,
1Ch 18:10 he sent his son Hadoram to King David, to ask about his health and to bless him because he had
fought against Hadadezer and defeated him; for Hadadezer had often been at war with Tou. And he sent all
sorts of articles of gold, of silver, and of bronze.
1Ch 18:11 These also King David dedicated to the LORD, together with the silver and gold that he had carried
off from all the nations, from Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines and Amalek.
1Ch 18:12 And Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, killed 18,000 Edomites in the Valley of Salt.
1Ch 18:13 Then he put garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became David's servants. And the LORD gave
victory to David wherever he went.
1Ch 18:14 So David reigned over all Israel, and he administered justice and equity to all his people.
1Ch 18:15 And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder;
1Ch 18:16 and Zadok the son of Ahitub and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar were priests; and Shavsha was
secretary;
1Ch 18:17 and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David's sons
were the chief officials in the service of the king.
1Ch 19:1 Now after this Nahash the king of the Ammonites died, and his son reigned in his place.
1Ch 19:2 And David said, "I will deal kindly with Hanun the son of Nahash, for his father dealt kindly with me."
So David sent messengers to console him concerning his father. And David's servants came to the land of the
Ammonites to Hanun to console him.
1Ch 19:3 But the princes of the Ammonites said to Hanun, "Do you think, because David has sent comforters to
you, that he is honoring your father? Have not his servants come to you to search and to overthrow and to spy
out the land?"
1Ch 19:4 So Hanun took David's servants and shaved them and cut off their garments in the middle, at their
hips, and sent them away;
1Ch 19:5 and they departed. When David was told concerning the men, he sent messengers to meet them, for
the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, "Remain at Jericho until your beards have grown and then
return."
1Ch 19:6 When the Ammonites saw that they had become a stench to David, Hanun and the Ammonites sent
1,000 talents of silver to hire chariots and horsemen from Mesopotamia, from Aram-maacah and from Zobah.
1Ch 19:7 They hired 32,000 chariots and the king of Maacah with his army, who came and encamped before
Medeba. And the Ammonites were mustered from their cities and came to battle.
1Ch 19:8 When David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the army of the mighty men.
1Ch 19:9 And the Ammonites came out and drew up in battle array at the entrance of the city, and the kings
who had come were by themselves in the open country.
1Ch 19:10 When Joab saw that the battle was set against him both in front and in the rear, he chose some of
the best men of Israel and arrayed them against the Syrians.
1Ch 19:11 The rest of his men he put in the charge of Abishai his brother, and they were arrayed against the
Ammonites.
1Ch 19:12 And he said, "If the Syrians are too strong for me, then you shall help me, but if the Ammonites are
too strong for you, then I will help you.
1Ch 19:13 Be strong, and let us use our strength for our people and for the cities of our God, and may the
LORD do what seems good to him."
1Ch 19:14 So Joab and the people who were with him drew near before the Syrians for battle, and they fled
before him.
1Ch 19:15 And when the Ammonites saw that the Syrians fled, they likewise fled before Abishai, Joab's brother,
and entered the city. Then Joab came to Jerusalem.
1Ch 19:16 But when the Syrians saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they sent messengers and brought
out the Syrians who were beyond the Euphrates, with Shophach the commander of the army of Hadadezer at
their head.
1Ch 19:17 And when it was told to David, he gathered all Israel together and crossed the Jordan and came to
them and drew up his forces against them. And when David set the battle in array against the Syrians, they
fought with him.
1Ch 19:18 And the Syrians fled before Israel, and David killed of the Syrians the men of 7,000 chariots and
40,000 foot soldiers, and put to death also Shophach the commander of their army.
1Ch 19:19 And when the servants of Hadadezer saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they made peace
with David and became subject to him. So the Syrians were not willing to save the Ammonites any more.
1Ch 20:1 In the spring of the year, the time when kings go out to battle, Joab led out the army and ravaged the
country of the Ammonites and came and besieged Rabbah. But David remained at Jerusalem. And Joab struck
down Rabbah and overthrew it.1Ch 20:2 And David took the crown of their king from his head. He found that it weighed a talent of gold, and in
it was a precious stone. And it was placed on David's head. And he brought out the spoil of the city, a very great
amount.
1Ch 20:3 And he brought out the people who were in it and set them to labor with saws and iron picks and axes.
And thus David did to all the cities of the Ammonites. Then David and all the people returned to Jerusalem.
1Ch 20:4 And after this there arose war with the Philistines at Gezer. Then Sibbecai the Hushathite struck down
Sippai, who was one of the descendants of the giants, and the Philistines were subdued.
1Ch 20:5 And there was again war with the Philistines, and Elhanan the son of Jair struck down Lahmi the
brother of Goliath the Gittite, the shaft of whose spear was like a weaver's beam.
1Ch 20:6 And there was again war at Gath, where there was a man of great stature, who had six fingers on
each hand and six toes on each foot, twenty-four in number, and he also was descended from the giants.
1Ch 20:7 And when he taunted Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimea, David's brother, struck him down.
1Ch 20:8 These were descended from the giants in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of
his servants.
1Ch 21:1 Then Satan stood against Israel and incited David to number Israel.
1Ch 21:2 So David said to Joab and the commanders of the army, "Go, number Israel, from Beersheba to Dan,
and bring me a report, that I may know their number."
1Ch 21:3 But Joab said, "May the LORD add to his people a hundred times as many as they are! Are they not,
my lord the king, all of them my lord's servants? Why then should my lord require this? Why should it be a cause
of guilt for Israel?"
1Ch 21:4 But the king's word prevailed against Joab. So Joab departed and went throughout all Israel and came
back to Jerusalem.
1Ch 21:5 And Joab gave the sum of the numbering of the people to David. In all Israel there were 1,100,000
men who drew the sword, and in Judah 470,000 who drew the sword.
1Ch 21:6 But he did not include Levi and Benjamin in the numbering, for the king's command was abhorrent to
Joab.
1Ch 21:7 But God was displeased with this thing, and he struck Israel.
1Ch 21:8 And David said to God, "I have sinned greatly in that I have done this thing. But now, please take
away the iniquity of your servant, for I have acted very foolishly."
1Ch 21:9 And the LORD spoke to Gad, David's seer, saying,
1Ch 21:10 "Go and say to David, 'Thus says the LORD, Three things I offer you; choose one of them, that I may
do it to you.'"
1Ch 21:11 So Gad came to David and said to him, "Thus says the LORD, 'Choose what you will:
1Ch 21:12 either three years of famine, or three months of devastation by your foes while the sword of your
enemies overtakes you, or else three days of the sword of the LORD, pestilence on the land, with the angel of
the LORD destroying throughout all the territory of Israel.' Now decide what answer I shall return to him who sent
me."
1Ch 21:13 Then David said to Gad, "I am in great distress. Let me fall into the hand of the LORD, for his mercy
is very great, but do not let me fall into the hand of man."
1Ch 21:14 So the LORD sent a pestilence on Israel, and 70,000 men of Israel fell.
1Ch 21:15 And God sent the angel to Jerusalem to destroy it, but as he was about to destroy it, the LORD saw,
and he relented from the calamity. And he said to the angel who was working destruction, "It is enough; now stay
your hand." And the angel of the LORD was standing by the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
1Ch 21:16 And David lifted his eyes and saw the angel of the LORD standing between earth and heaven, and in
his hand a drawn sword stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders, clothed in sackcloth, fell upon
their faces.
1Ch 21:17 And David said to God, "Was it not I who gave command to number the people? It is I who have
sinned and done great evil. But these sheep, what have they done? Please let your hand, O LORD my God, be
against me and against my father's house. But do not let the plague be on your people."
1Ch 21:18 Now the angel of the LORD had commanded Gad to say to David that David should go up and raise
an altar to the LORD on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
1Ch 21:19 So David went up at Gad's word, which he had spoken in the name of the LORD.
1Ch 21:20 Now Ornan was threshing wheat. He turned and saw the angel, and his four sons who were with him
hid themselves.
1Ch 21:21 As David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David and went out from the threshing floor and
paid homage to David with his face to the ground.
1Ch 21:22 And David said to Ornan, "Give me the site of the threshing floor that I may build on it an altar to the
LORD- give it to me at its full price- that the plague may be averted from the people."
1Ch 21:23 Then Ornan said to David, "Take it, and let my lord the king do what seems good to him. See, I givethe oxen for burnt offerings and the threshing sledges for the wood and the wheat for a grain offering; I give it
all."
1Ch 21:24 But King David said to Ornan, "No, but I will buy them for the full price. I will not take for the LORD
what is yours, nor offer burnt offerings that cost me nothing."
1Ch 21:25 So David paid Ornan 600 shekels of gold by weight for the site.
1Ch 21:26 And David built there an altar to the LORD and presented burnt offerings and peace offerings and
called on the LORD, and the LORD answered him with fire from heaven upon the altar of burnt offering.
1Ch 21:27 Then the LORD commanded the angel, and he put his sword back into its sheath.
1Ch 21:28 At that time, when David saw that the LORD had answered him at the threshing floor of Ornan the
Jebusite, he sacrificed there.
1Ch 21:29 For the tabernacle of the LORD, which Moses had made in the wilderness, and the altar of burnt
offering were at that time in the high place at Gibeon,
1Ch 21:30 but David could not go before it to inquire of God, for he was afraid of the sword of the angel of the
LORD.
1Ch 22:1 Then David said, "Here shall be the house of the LORD God and here the altar of burnt offering for
Israel."
1Ch 22:2 David commanded to gather together the resident aliens who were in the land of Israel, and he set
stonecutters to prepare dressed stones for building the house of God.
1Ch 22:3 David also provided great quantities of iron for nails for the doors of the gates and for clamps, as well
as bronze in quantities beyond weighing,
1Ch 22:4 and cedar timbers without number, for the Sidonians and Tyrians brought great quantities of cedar to
David.
1Ch 22:5 For David said, "Solomon my son is young and inexperienced, and the house that is to be built for the
LORD must be exceedingly magnificent, of fame and glory throughout all lands. I will therefore make preparation
for it." So David provided materials in great quantity before his death.
1Ch 22:6 Then he called for Solomon his son and charged him to build a house for the LORD, the God of Israel.
1Ch 22:7 David said to Solomon, "My son, I had it in my heart to build a house to the name of the LORD my
God.
1Ch 22:8 But the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 'You have shed much blood and have waged great
wars. You shall not build a house to my name, because you have shed so much blood before me on the earth.
1Ch 22:9 Behold, a son shall be born to you who shall be a man of rest. I will give him rest from all his
surrounding enemies. For his name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and quiet to Israel in his days.
1Ch 22:10 He shall build a house for my name. He shall be my son, and I will be his father, and I will establish
his royal throne in Israel forever.'
1Ch 22:11 "Now, my son, the LORD be with you, so that you may succeed in building the house of the LORD
your God, as he has spoken concerning you.
1Ch 22:12 Only, may the LORD grant you discretion and understanding, that when he gives you charge over
Israel you may keep the law of the LORD your God.
1Ch 22:13 Then you will prosper if you are careful to observe the statutes and the rules that the LORD
commanded Moses for Israel. Be strong and courageous. Fear not; do not be dismayed.
1Ch 22:14 With great pains I have provided for the house of the LORD 100,000 talents of gold, a million talents
of silver, and bronze and iron beyond weighing, for there is so much of it; timber and stone, too, I have provided.
To these you must add.
1Ch 22:15 You have an abundance of workmen: stonecutters, masons, carpenters, and all kinds of craftsmen
without number, skilled in working
1Ch 22:16 gold, silver, bronze, and iron. Arise and work! The LORD be with you!"
1Ch 22:17 David also commanded all the leaders of Israel to help Solomon his son, saying,
1Ch 22:18 "Is not the LORD your God with you? And has he not given you peace on every side? For he has
delivered the inhabitants of the land into my hand, and the land is subdued before the LORD and his people.
1Ch 22:19 Now set your mind and heart to seek the LORD your God. Arise and build the sanctuary of the LORD
God, so that the ark of the covenant of the LORD and the holy vessels of God may be brought into a house built
for the name of the LORD."
1Ch 23:1 When David was old and full of days, he made Solomon his son king over Israel.
1Ch 23:2 David assembled all the leaders of Israel and the priests and the Levites.
1Ch 23:3 The Levites, thirty years old and upward, were numbered, and the total was 38,000 men.
1Ch 23:4 "Twenty-four thousand of these," David said, "shall have charge of the work in the house of the LORD,
6,000 shall be officers and judges,
1Ch 23:5 4,000 gatekeepers, and 4,000 shall offer praises to the LORD with the instruments that I have made
for praise."1Ch 23:6 And David organized them in divisions corresponding to the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and
Merari.
1Ch 23:7 The sons of Gershon were Ladan and Shimei.
1Ch 23:8 The sons of Ladan: Jehiel the chief, and Zetham, and Joel, three.
1Ch 23:9 The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth, Haziel, and Haran, three. These were the heads of the fathers'
houses of Ladan.
1Ch 23:10 And the sons of Shimei: Jahath, Zina, and Jeush and Beriah. These four were the sons of Shimei.
1Ch 23:11 Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second; but Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons, therefore
they became counted as a single father's house.
1Ch 23:12 The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, four.
1Ch 23:13 The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses. Aaron was set apart to dedicate the most holy things, that he
and his sons forever should make offerings before the LORD and minister to him and pronounce blessings in his
name forever.
1Ch 23:14 But the sons of Moses the man of God were named among the tribe of Levi.
1Ch 23:15 The sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer.
1Ch 23:16 The sons of Gershom: Shebuel the chief.
1Ch 23:17 The sons of Eliezer: Rehabiah the chief. Eliezer had no other sons, but the sons of Re-habiah were
very many.
1Ch 23:18 The sons of Izhar: Shelomith the chief.
1Ch 23:19 The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the chief, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the
fourth.
1Ch 23:20 The sons of Uzziel: Micah the chief and Isshiah the second.
1Ch 23:21 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish.
1Ch 23:22 Eleazar died having no sons, but only daughters; their kinsmen, the sons of Kish, married them.
1Ch 23:23 The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jeremoth, three.
1Ch 23:24 These were the sons of Levi by their fathers' houses, the heads of fathers' houses as they were
listed according to the number of the names of the individuals from twenty years old and upward who were to do
the work for the service of the house of the LORD.
1Ch 23:25 For David said, "The LORD, the God of Israel, has given rest to his people, and he dwells in
Jerusalem forever.
1Ch 23:26 And so the Levites no longer need to carry the tabernacle or any of the things for its service."
1Ch 23:27 For by the last words of David the sons of Levi were numbered from twenty years old and upward.
1Ch 23:28 For their duty was to assist the sons of Aaron for the service of the house of the LORD, having the
care of the courts and the chambers, the cleansing of all that is holy, and any work for the service of the house of
God.
1Ch 23:29 Their duty was also to assist with the showbread, the flour for the grain offering, the wafers of
unleavened bread, the baked offering, the offering mixed with oil, and all measures of quantity or size.
1Ch 23:30 And they were to stand every morning, thanking and praising the LORD, and likewise at evening,
1Ch 23:31 and whenever burnt offerings were offered to the LORD on Sabbaths, new moons and feast days,
according to the number required of them, regularly before the LORD.
1Ch 23:32 Thus they were to keep charge of the tent of meeting and the sanctuary, and to attend the sons of
Aaron, their brothers, for the service of the house of the LORD.
1Ch 24:1 The divisions of the sons of Aaron were these. The sons of Aaron: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and
Ithamar.
1Ch 24:2 But Nadab and Abihu died before their father and had no children, so Eleazar and Ithamar became
the priests.
1Ch 24:3 With the help of Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, David organized
them according to the appointed duties in their service.
1Ch 24:4 Since more chief men were found among the sons of Eleazar than among the sons of Ithamar, they
organized them under sixteen heads of fathers' houses of the sons of Eleazar, and eight of the sons of Ithamar.
1Ch 24:5 They divided them by lot, all alike, for there were sacred officers and officers of God among both the
sons of Eleazar and the sons of Ithamar.
1Ch 24:6 And the scribe Shemaiah, the son of Nethanel, a Levite, recorded them in the presence of the king
and the princes and Zadok the priest and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar and the heads of the fathers' houses of
the priests and of the Levites, one father's house being chosen for Eleazar and one chosen for Ithamar.
1Ch 24:7 The first lot fell to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,
1Ch 24:8 the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim,
1Ch 24:9 the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin,
1Ch 24:10 the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah,1Ch 24:11 the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah,
1Ch 24:12 the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim,
1Ch 24:13 the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab,
1Ch 24:14 the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer,
1Ch 24:15 the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Happizzez,
1Ch 24:16 the nineteenth to Petha-hiah, the twentieth to Jehezkel,
1Ch 24:17 the twenty-first to Jachin, the twenty-second to Gamul,
1Ch 24:18 the twenty-third to Delaiah, the twenty-fourth to Maaziah.
1Ch 24:19 These had as their appointed duty in their service to come into the house of the LORD according to
the procedure established for them by Aaron their father, as the LORD God of Israel had commanded him.
1Ch 24:20 And of the rest of the sons of Levi: of the sons of Amram, Shubael; of the sons of Shubael, Jehdeiah.
1Ch 24:21 Of Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, Isshiah the chief.
1Ch 24:22 Of the Izharites, Shelomoth; of the sons of Shelomoth, Jahath.
1Ch 24:23 The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the chief, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.
1Ch 24:24 The sons of Uzziel, Micah; of the sons of Micah, Shamir.
1Ch 24:25 The brother of Micah, Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah.
1Ch 24:26 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Jaaziah: Beno.
1Ch 24:27 The sons of Merari: of Jaaziah, Beno, Shoham, Zaccur and Ibri.
1Ch 24:28 Of Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons.
1Ch 24:29 Of Kish, the sons of Kish: Jerahmeel.
1Ch 24:30 The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites according to their
fathers' houses.
1Ch 24:31 These also, the head of each father's house and his younger brother alike, cast lots, just as their
brothers the sons of Aaron, in the presence of King David, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the heads of fathers' houses
of the priests and of the Levites.
1Ch 25:1 David and the chiefs of the service also set apart for the service the sons of Asaph, and of Heman,
and of Jeduthun, who prophesied with lyres, with harps, and with cymbals. The list of those who did the work
and of their duties was:
1Ch 25:2 Of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah, and Asharelah, sons of Asaph, under the direction
of Asaph, who prophesied under the direction of the king.
1Ch 25:3 Of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six,
under the direction of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied with the lyre in thanksgiving and praise to the
LORD.
1Ch 25:4 Of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani,
Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamti-ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, Ma-hazioth.
1Ch 25:5 All these were the sons of Heman the king's seer, according to the promise of God to exalt him, for
God had given Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.
1Ch 25:6 They were all under the direction of their father in the music in the house of the LORD with cymbals,
harps, and lyres for the service of the house of God. Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman were under the order of the
king.
1Ch 25:7 The number of them along with their brothers, who were trained in singing to the LORD, all who were
skillful, was 288.
1Ch 25:8 And they cast lots for their duties, small and great, teacher and pupil alike.
1Ch 25:9 The first lot fell for Asaph to Joseph; the second to Gedaliah, to him and his brothers and his sons,
twelve;
1Ch 25:10 the third to Zaccur, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:11 the fourth to Izri, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:12 the fifth to Nethaniah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:13 the sixth to Bukkiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:14 the seventh to Jesharelah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:15 the eighth to Jeshaiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:16 the ninth to Mattaniah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:17 the tenth to Shimei, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:18 the eleventh to Azarel, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:19 the twelfth to Hashabiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:20 to the thirteenth, Shubael, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:21 to the fourteenth, Mattithiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:22 to the fifteenth, to Jeremoth, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:23 to the sixteenth, to Hananiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;1Ch 25:24 to the seventeenth, to Joshbekashah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:25 to the eighteenth, to Hanani, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:26 to the nineteenth, to Mallothi, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:27 to the twentieth, to Eliathah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:28 to the twenty-first, to Hothir, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:29 to the twenty-second, to Giddalti, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:30 to the twenty-third, to Mahazioth, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1Ch 25:31 to the twenty-fourth, to Romamti-ezer, his sons and his brothers, twelve.
1Ch 26:1 As for the divisions of the gatekeepers: of the Korahites, Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of
Asaph.
1Ch 26:2 And Meshelemiah had sons: Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel
the fourth,
1Ch 26:3 Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Eliehoenai the seventh.
1Ch 26:4 And Obed-edom had sons: Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sachar the
fourth, Nethanel the fifth,
1Ch 26:5 Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peullethai the eighth, for God blessed him.
1Ch 26:6 Also to his son Shemaiah were sons born who were rulers in their fathers' houses, for they were men
of great ability.
1Ch 26:7 The sons of Shemaiah: Othni, Rephael, Obed and Elzabad, whose brothers were able men, Elihu and
Semachiah.
1Ch 26:8 All these were of the sons of Obed-edom with their sons and brothers, able men qualified for the
service; sixty-two of Obed-edom.
1Ch 26:9 And Meshelemiah had sons and brothers, able men, eighteen.
1Ch 26:10 And Hosah, of the sons of Merari, had sons: Shimri the chief (for though he was not the firstborn, his
father made him chief),
1Ch 26:11 Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth: all the sons and brothers of Hosah were
thirteen.
1Ch 26:12 These divisions of the gatekeepers, corresponding to their chief men, had duties, just as their
brothers did, ministering in the house of the LORD.
1Ch 26:13 And they cast lots by fathers' houses, small and great alike, for their gates.
1Ch 26:14 The lot for the east fell to Shelemiah. They cast lots also for his son Zechariah, a shrewd counselor,
and his lot came out for the north.
1Ch 26:15 Obed-edom's came out for the south, and to his sons was allotted the gatehouse.
1Ch 26:16 For Shuppim and Hosah it came out for the west, at the gate of Shallecheth on the road that goes
up. Watch corresponded to watch.
1Ch 26:17 On the east there were six each day, on the north four each day, on the south four each day, as well
as two and two at the gatehouse.
1Ch 26:18 And for the colonnade on the west there were four at the road and two at the colonnade.
1Ch 26:19 These were the divisions of the gatekeepers among the Korahites and the sons of Merari.
1Ch 26:20 And of the Levites, Ahijah had charge of the treasuries of the house of God and the treasuries of the
dedicated gifts.
1Ch 26:21 The sons of Ladan, the sons of the Gershonites belonging to Ladan, the heads of the fathers' houses
belonging to Ladan the Gershonite: Jehieli.
1Ch 26:22 The sons of Jehieli, Zetham, and Joel his brother, were in charge of the treasuries of the house of
the LORD.
1Ch 26:23 Of the Amramites, the Izharites, the Hebronites, and the Uzzielites-
1Ch 26:24 and Shebuel the son of Gershom, son of Moses, was chief officer in charge of the treasuries.
1Ch 26:25 His brothers: from Eliezer were his son Rehabiah, and his son Jeshaiah, and his son Joram, and his
son Zichri, and his son Shelomoth.
1Ch 26:26 This Shelomoth and his brothers were in charge of all the treasuries of the dedicated gifts that David
the king and the heads of the fathers' houses and the officers of the thousands and the hundreds and the
commanders of the army had dedicated.
1Ch 26:27 From spoil won in battles they dedicated gifts for the maintenance of the house of the LORD.
1Ch 26:28 Also all that Samuel the seer and Saul the son of Kish and Abner the son of Ner and Joab the son of
Zeruiah had dedicated- all dedicated gifts were in the care of Shelomoth and his brothers.
1Ch 26:29 Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were appointed to external duties for Israel, as officers and
judges.
1Ch 26:30 Of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brothers, 1,700 men of ability, had the oversight of Israel
westward of the Jordan for all the work of the LORD and for the service of the king.1Ch 26:31 Of the Hebronites, Jerijah was chief of the Hebronites of whatever genealogy or fathers' houses. (In
the fortieth year of David's reign search was made and men of great ability among them were found at Jazer in
Gilead.)
1Ch 26:32 King David appointed him and his brothers, 2,700 men of ability, heads of fathers' houses, to have
the oversight of the Reubenites, the Gadites and the half-tribe of the Manassites for everything pertaining to God
and for the affairs of the king.
1Ch 27:1 This is the number of the people of Israel, the heads of fathers' houses, the commanders of thousands
and hundreds, and their officers who served the king in all matters concerning the divisions that came and went,
month after month throughout the year, each division numbering 24,000:
1Ch 27:2 Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel was in charge of the first division in the first month; in his division were
24,000.
1Ch 27:3 He was a descendant of Perez and was chief of all the commanders. He served for the first month.
1Ch 27:4 Dodai the Ahohite was in charge of the division of the second month; in his division were 24,000.
1Ch 27:5 The third commander, for the third month, was Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada the chief priest; in his
division were 24,000.
1Ch 27:6 This is the Benaiah who was a mighty man of the thirty and in command of the thirty; Ammizabad his
son was in charge of his division.
1Ch 27:7 Asahel the brother of Joab was fourth, for the fourth month, and his son Zebadiah after him; in his
division were 24,000.
1Ch 27:8 The fifth commander, for the fifth month, was Shamhuth the Izrahite; in his division were 24,000.
1Ch 27:9 Sixth, for the sixth month, was Ira, the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite; in his division were 24,000.
1Ch 27:10 Seventh, for the seventh month, was Helez the Pelonite, of the sons of Ephraim; in his division were
24,000.
1Ch 27:11 Eighth, for the eighth month, was Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zerahites; in his division were
24,000.
1Ch 27:12 Ninth, for the ninth month, was Abiezer of Anathoth, a Benjaminite; in his division were 24,000.
1Ch 27:13 Tenth, for the tenth month, was Maharai of Netophah, of the Zerahites; in his division were 24,000.
1Ch 27:14 Eleventh, for the eleventh month, was Benaiah of Pirathon, of the sons of Ephraim; in his division
were 24,000.
1Ch 27:15 Twelfth, for the twelfth month, was Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel; in his division were 24,000.
1Ch 27:16 Over the tribes of Israel, for the Reubenites, Eliezer the son of Zichri was chief officer; for the
Simeonites, Shephatiah the son of Maacah;
1Ch 27:17 for Levi, Hashabiah the son of Kemuel; for Aaron, Zadok;
1Ch 27:18 for Judah, Elihu, one of David's brothers; for Issachar, Omri the son of Michael;
1Ch 27:19 for Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah; for Naphtali, Jeremoth the son of Azriel;
1Ch 27:20 for the Ephraimites, Hoshea the son of Azaziah; for the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of
Pedaiah;
1Ch 27:21 for the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah; for Ben-jamin, Jaasiel the son of
Abner;
1Ch 27:22 for Dan, Azarel the son of Jeroham. These were the leaders of the tribes of Israel.
1Ch 27:23 David did not count those below twenty years of age, for the LORD had promised to make Israel as
many as the stars of heaven.
1Ch 27:24 Joab the son of Zeruiah began to count, but did not finish. Yet wrath came upon Israel for this, and
the number was not entered in the chronicles of King David.
1Ch 27:25 Over the king's treasuries was Azmaveth the son of Adiel; and over the treasuries in the country, in
the cities, in the villages and in the towers, was Jonathan the son of Uzziah;
1Ch 27:26 and over those who did the work of the field for tilling the soil was Ezri the son of Chelub;
1Ch 27:27 and over the vineyards was Shimei the Ramathite; and over the produce of the vineyards for the
wine cellars was Zabdi the Shiphmite.
1Ch 27:28 Over the olive and sycamore trees in the Shephelah was Baal-hanan the Gederite; and over the
stores of oil was Joash.
1Ch 27:29 Over the herds that pastured in Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite; over the herds in the valleys was
Shaphat the son of Adlai.
1Ch 27:30 Over the camels was Obil the Ishmaelite; and over the donkeys was Jehdeiah the Meronothite. Over
the flocks was Jaziz the Hagrite.
1Ch 27:31 All these were stewards of King David's property.
1Ch 27:32 Jonathan, David's uncle, was a counselor, being a man of understanding and a scribe. He and Jehiel
the son of Hachmoni attended the king's sons.
1Ch 27:33 Ahithophel was the king's counselor, and Hushai the Archite was the king's friend.1Ch 27:34 Ahithophel was succeeded by Jehoiada the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar. Joab was commander of
the king's army.
1Ch 28:1 David assembled at Jerusalem all the officials of Israel, the officials of the tribes, the officers of the
divisions that served the king, the commanders of thousands, the commanders of hundreds, the stewards of all
the property and livestock of the king and his sons, together with the palace officials, the mighty men and all the
seasoned warriors.
1Ch 28:2 Then King David rose to his feet and said: "Hear me, my brothers and my people. I had it in my heart
to build a house of rest for the ark of the covenant of the LORD and for the footstool of our God, and I made
preparations for building.
1Ch 28:3 But God said to me, 'You may not build a house for my name, for you are a man of war and have shed
blood.'
1Ch 28:4 Yet the LORD God of Israel chose me from all my father's house to be king over Israel forever. For he
chose Judah as leader, and in the house of Judah my father's house, and among my father's sons he took
pleasure in me to make me king over all Israel.
1Ch 28:5 And of all my sons (for the LORD has given me many sons) he has chosen Solomon my son to sit on
the throne of the kingdom of the LORD over Israel.
1Ch 28:6 He said to me, 'It is Solomon your son who shall build my house and my courts, for I have chosen him
to be my son, and I will be his father.
1Ch 28:7 I will establish his kingdom forever if he continues strong in keeping my commandments and my rules,
as he is today.'
1Ch 28:8 Now therefore in the sight of all Israel, the assembly of the LORD, and in the hearing of our God,
observe and seek out all the commandments of the LORD your God, that you may possess this good land and
leave it for an inheritance to your children after you forever.
1Ch 28:9 "And you, Solomon my son, know the God of your father and serve him with a whole heart and with a
willing mind, for the LORD searches all hearts and understands every plan and thought. If you seek him, he will
be found by you, but if you forsake him, he will cast you off forever.
1Ch 28:10 Be careful now, for the LORD has chosen you to build a house for the sanctuary; be strong and do
it."
1Ch 28:11 Then David gave Solomon his son the plan of the vestibule of the temple, and of its houses, its
treasuries, its upper rooms, and its inner chambers, and of the room for the mercy seat;
1Ch 28:12 and the plan of all that he had in mind for the courts of the house of the LORD, all the surrounding
chambers, the treasuries of the house of God, and the treasuries for dedicated gifts;
1Ch 28:13 for the divisions of the priests and of the Levites, and all the work of the service in the house of the
LORD; for all the vessels for the service in the house of the LORD,
1Ch 28:14 the weight of gold for all golden vessels for each service, the weight of silver vessels for each
service,
1Ch 28:15 the weight of the golden lampstands and their lamps, the weight of gold for each lampstand and its
lamps, the weight of silver for a lampstand and its lamps, according to the use of each lampstand in the service,
1Ch 28:16 the weight of gold for each table for the showbread, the silver for the silver tables,
1Ch 28:17 and pure gold for the forks, the basins and the cups; for the golden bowls and the weight of each; for
the silver bowls and the weight of each;
1Ch 28:18 for the altar of incense made of refined gold, and its weight; also his plan for the golden chariot of the
cherubim that spread their wings and covered the ark of the covenant of the LORD.
1Ch 28:19 All this he made clear to me in writing from the hand of the LORD, all the work to be done according
to the plan.
1Ch 28:20 Then David said to Solomon his son, "Be strong and courageous and do it. Do not be afraid and do
not be dismayed, for the LORD God, even my God, is with you. He will not leave you or forsake you, until all the
work for the service of the house of the LORD is finished.
1Ch 28:21 And behold the divisions of the priests and the Levites for all the service of the house of God; and
with you in all the work will be every willing man who has skill for any kind of service; also the officers and all the
people will be wholly at your command."
1Ch 29:1 And David the king said to all the assembly, "Solomon my son, whom alone God has chosen, is young
and inexperienced, and the work is great, for the palace will not be for man but for the LORD God.
1Ch 29:2 So I have provided for the house of my God, so far as I was able, the gold for the things of gold, the
silver for the things of silver, and the bronze for the things of bronze, the iron for the things of iron, and wood for
the things of wood, besides great quantities of onyx and stones for setting, antimony, colored stones, all sorts of
precious stones and marble.
1Ch 29:3 Moreover, in addition to all that I have provided for the holy house, I have a treasure of my own of gold
and silver, and because of my devotion to the house of my God I give it to the house of my God:1Ch 29:4 3,000 talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir, and 7,000 talents of refined silver, for overlaying the walls of
the house,
1Ch 29:5 and for all the work to be done by craftsmen, gold for the things of gold and silver for the things of
silver. Who then will offer willingly, consecrating himself today to the LORD?"
1Ch 29:6 Then the leaders of fathers' houses made their freewill offerings, as did also the leaders of the tribes,
the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, and the officers over the king's work.
1Ch 29:7 They gave for the service of the house of God 5,000 talents and 10,000 darics of gold, 10,000 talents
of silver, 18,000 talents of bronze and 100,000 talents of iron.
1Ch 29:8 And whoever had precious stones gave them to the treasury of the house of the LORD, in the care of
Jehiel the Gershonite.
1Ch 29:9 Then the people rejoiced because they had given willingly, for with a whole heart they had offered
freely to the LORD. David the king also rejoiced greatly.
1Ch 29:10 Therefore David blessed the LORD in the presence of all the assembly. And David said: "Blessed
are you, O LORD, the God of Israel our father, forever and ever.
1Ch 29:11 Yours, O LORD, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty, for all
that is in the heavens and in the earth is yours. Yours is the kingdom, O LORD, and you are exalted as head
above all.
1Ch 29:12 Both riches and honor come from you, and you rule over all. In your hand are power and might, and
in your hand it is to make great and to give strength to all.
1Ch 29:13 And now we thank you, our God, and praise your glorious name.
1Ch 29:14 "But who am I, and what is my people, that we should be able thus to offer willingly? For all things
come from you, and of your own have we given you.
1Ch 29:15 For we are strangers before you and sojourners, as all our fathers were. Our days on the earth are
like a shadow, and there is no abiding.
1Ch 29:16 O LORD our God, all this abundance that we have provided for building you a house for your holy
name comes from your hand and is all your own.
1Ch 29:17 I know, my God, that you test the heart and have pleasure in uprightness. In the uprightness of my
heart I have freely offered all these things, and now I have seen your people, who are present here, offering
freely and joyously to you.
1Ch 29:18 O LORD, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, our fathers, keep forever such purposes and
thoughts in the hearts of your people, and direct their hearts toward you.
1Ch 29:19 Grant to Solomon my son a whole heart that he may keep your commandments, your testimonies,
and your statutes, performing all, and that he may build the palace for which I have made provision."
1Ch 29:20 Then David said to all the assembly, "Bless the LORD your God." And all the assembly blessed the
LORD, the God of their fathers, and bowed their heads and paid homage to the LORD and to the king.
1Ch 29:21 And they offered sacrifices to the LORD, and on the next day offered burnt offerings to the LORD,
1,000 bulls, 1,000 rams, and 1,000 lambs, with their drink offerings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel.
1Ch 29:22 And they ate and drank before the LORD on that day with great gladness. And they made Solomon
the son of David king the second time, and they anointed him as prince for the LORD, and Zadok as priest.
1Ch 29:23 Then Solomon sat on the throne of the LORD as king in place of David his father. And he prospered,
and all Israel obeyed him.
1Ch 29:24 All the leaders and the mighty men, and also all the sons of King David, pledged their allegiance to
King Solomon.
1Ch 29:25 And the LORD made Solomon very great in the sight of all Israel and bestowed on him such royal
majesty as had not been on any king before him in Israel.
1Ch 29:26 Thus David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel.
1Ch 29:27 The time that he reigned over Israel was forty years. He reigned seven years in Hebron and thirtythree years in Jerusalem.
1Ch 29:28 Then he died at a good age, full of days, riches, and honor. And Solomon his son reigned in his
place.
1Ch 29:29 Now the acts of King David, from first to last, are written in the Chronicles of Samuel the seer, and in
the Chronicles of Nathan the prophet, and in the Chronicles of Gad the seer,
1Ch 29:30 with accounts of all his rule and his might and of the circumstances that came upon him and upon
Israel and upon all the kingdoms of the countries.
2Ch 1:1 Solomon the son of David established himself in his kingdom, and the LORD his God was with him and
made him exceedingly great.
2Ch 1:2 Solomon spoke to all Israel, to the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, to the judges, and to all
the leaders in all Israel, the heads of fathers' houses.
2Ch 1:3 And Solomon, and all the assembly with him, went to the high place that was at Gibeon, for the tent ofmeeting of God, which Moses the servant of the LORD had made in the wilderness, was there.
2Ch 1:4 (But David had brought up the ark of God from Kiriath-jearim to the place that David had prepared for it,
for he had pitched a tent for it in Jerusalem.)
2Ch 1:5 Moreover, the bronze altar that Bezalel the son of Uri, son of Hur, had made, was there before the
tabernacle of the LORD. And Solomon and the assembly resorted to it.
2Ch 1:6 And Solomon went up there to the bronze altar before the LORD, which was at the tent of meeting, and
offered a thousand burnt offerings on it.
2Ch 1:7 In that night God appeared to Solomon, and said to him, "Ask what I shall give you."
2Ch 1:8 And Solomon said to God, "You have shown great and steadfast love to David my father, and have
made me king in his place.
2Ch 1:9 O LORD God, let your word to David my father be now fulfilled, for you have made me king over a
people as numerous as the dust of the earth.
2Ch 1:10 Give me now wisdom and knowledge to go out and come in before this people, for who can govern
this people of yours, which is so great?"
2Ch 1:11 God answered Solomon, "Because this was in your heart, and you have not asked possessions,
wealth, honor, or the life of those who hate you, and have not even asked long life, but have asked wisdom and
knowledge for yourself that you may govern my people over whom I have made you king,
2Ch 1:12 wisdom and knowledge are granted to you. I will also give you riches, possessions, and honor, such
as none of the kings had who were before you, and none after you shall have the like."
2Ch 1:13 So Solomon came from the high place at Gibeon, from before the tent of meeting, to Jerusalem. And
he reigned over Israel.
2Ch 1:14 Solomon gathered together chariots and horsemen. He had 1,400 chariots and 12,000 horsemen,
whom he stationed in the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem.
2Ch 1:15 And the king made silver and gold as common in Jerusalem as stone, and he made cedar as plentiful
as the sycamore of the Shephelah.
2Ch 1:16 And Solomon's import of horses was from Egypt and Kue, and the king's traders would buy them from
Kue for a price.
2Ch 1:17 They imported a chariot from Egypt for 600 shekels of silver, and a horse for 150. Likewise through
them these were exported to all the kings of the Hittites and the kings of Syria.
2Ch 2:1 Now Solomon purposed to build a temple for the name of the LORD, and a royal palace for himself.
2Ch 2:2 And Solomon assigned 70,000 men to bear burdens and 80,000 to quarry in the hill country, and 3,600
to oversee them.
2Ch 2:3 And Solomon sent word to Hiram the king of Tyre: "As you dealt with David my father and sent him
cedar to build himself a house to dwell in, so deal with me.
2Ch 2:4 Behold, I am about to build a house for the name of the LORD my God and dedicate it to him for the
burning of incense of sweet spices before him, and for the regular arrangement of the showbread, and for burnt
offerings morning and evening, on the Sabbaths and the new moons and the appointed feasts of the LORD our
God, as ordained forever for Israel.
2Ch 2:5 The house that I am to build will be great, for our God is greater than all gods.
2Ch 2:6 But who is able to build him a house, since heaven, even highest heaven, cannot contain him? Who am
I to build a house for him, except as a place to make offerings before him?
2Ch 2:7 So now send me a man skilled to work in gold, silver, bronze, and iron, and in purple, crimson, and blue
fabrics, trained also in engraving, to be with the skilled workers who are with me in Judah and Jerusalem, whom
David my father provided.
2Ch 2:8 Send me also cedar, cypress, and algum timber from Lebanon, for I know that your servants know how
to cut timber in Lebanon. And my servants will be with your servants,
2Ch 2:9 to prepare timber for me in abundance, for the house I am to build will be great and wonderful.
2Ch 2:10 I will give for your servants, the woodsmen who cut timber, 20,000 cors of crushed wheat, 20,000 cors
of barley, 20,000 baths of wine, and 20,000 baths of oil."
2Ch 2:11 Then Hiram the king of Tyre answered in a letter that he sent to Solomon, "Because the LORD loves
his people, he has made you king over them."
2Ch 2:12 Hiram also said, "Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, who made heaven and earth, who has given
King David a wise son, who has discretion and understanding, who will build a temple for the LORD and a royal
palace for himself.
2Ch 2:13 "Now I have sent a skilled man, who has understanding, Huram-abi,
2Ch 2:14 the son of a woman of the daughters of Dan, and his father was a man of Tyre. He is trained to work
in gold, silver, bronze, iron, stone, and wood, and in purple, blue, and crimson fabrics and fine linen, and to do all
sorts of engraving and execute any design that may be assigned him, with your craftsmen, the craftsmen of my
lord, David your father.2Ch 2:15 Now therefore the wheat and barley, oil and wine, of which my lord has spoken, let him send to his
servants.
2Ch 2:16 And we will cut whatever timber you need from Lebanon and bring it to you in rafts by sea to Joppa,
so that you may take it up to Jerusalem."
2Ch 2:17 Then Solomon counted all the resident aliens who were in the land of Israel, after the census of them
that David his father had taken, and there were found 153,600.
2Ch 2:18 Seventy thousand of them he assigned to bear burdens, 80,000 to quarry in the hill country, and 3,600
as overseers to make the people work.
2Ch 3:1 Then Solomon began to build the house of the LORD in Jerusalem on Mount Moriah, where the LORD
had appeared to David his father, at the place that David had appointed, on the threshing floor of Ornan the
Jebusite.
2Ch 3:2 He began to build in the second month of the fourth year of his reign.
2Ch 3:3 These are Solomon's measurements for building the house of God: the length, in cubits of the old
standard, was sixty cubits, and the breadth twenty cubits.
2Ch 3:4 The vestibule in front of the nave of the house was twenty cubits long, equal to the width of the house,
and its height was 120 cubits. He overlaid it on the inside with pure gold.
2Ch 3:5 The nave he lined with cypress and covered it with fine gold and made palms and chains on it.
2Ch 3:6 He adorned the house with settings of precious stones. The gold was gold of Parvaim.
2Ch 3:7 So he lined the house with gold- its beams, its thresholds, its walls, and its doors- and he carved
cherubim on the walls.
2Ch 3:8 And he made the Most Holy Place. Its length, corresponding to the breadth of the house, was twenty
cubits, and its breadth was twenty cubits. He overlaid it with 600 talents of fine gold.
2Ch 3:9 The weight of gold for the nails was fifty shekels. And he overlaid the upper chambers with gold.
2Ch 3:10 In the Most Holy Place he made two cherubim of wood and overlaid them with gold.
2Ch 3:11 The wings of the cherubim together extended twenty cubits: one wing of the one, of five cubits,
touched the wall of the house, and its other wing, of five cubits, touched the wing of the other cherub;
2Ch 3:12 and of this cherub, one wing, of five cubits, touched the wall of the house, and the other wing, also of
five cubits, was joined to the wing of the first cherub.
2Ch 3:13 The wings of these cherubim extended twenty cubits. The cherubim stood on their feet, facing the
nave.
2Ch 3:14 And he made the veil of blue and purple and crimson fabrics and fine linen, and he worked cherubim
on it.
2Ch 3:15 In front of the house he made two pillars thirty-five cubits high, with a capital of five cubits on the top of
each.
2Ch 3:16 He made chains like a necklace and put them on the tops of the pillars, and he made a hundred
pomegranates and put them on the chains.
2Ch 3:17 He set up the pillars in front of the temple, one on the south, the other on the north; that on the south
he called Jachin, and that on the north Boaz.
2Ch 4:1 He made an altar of bronze, twenty cubits long and twenty cubits wide and ten cubits high.
2Ch 4:2 Then he made the sea of cast metal. It was round, ten cubits from brim to brim, and five cubits high,
and a line of thirty cubits measured its circumference.
2Ch 4:3 Under it were figures of gourds, for ten cubits, compassing the sea all around. The gourds were in two
rows, cast with it when it was cast.
2Ch 4:4 It stood on twelve oxen, three facing north, three facing west, three facing south, and three facing east.
The sea was set on them, and all their rear parts were inward.
2Ch 4:5 Its thickness was a handbreadth. And its brim was made like the brim of a cup, like the flower of a lily. It
held 3,000 baths.
2Ch 4:6 He also made ten basins in which to wash, and set five on the south side, and five on the north side. In
these they were to rinse off what was used for the burnt offering, and the sea was for the priests to wash in.
2Ch 4:7 And he made ten golden lampstands as prescribed, and set them in the temple, five on the south side
and five on the north.
2Ch 4:8 He also made ten tables and placed them in the temple, five on the south side and five on the north.
And he made a hundred basins of gold.
2Ch 4:9 He made the court of the priests and the great court and doors for the court and overlaid their doors
with bronze.
2Ch 4:10 And he set the sea at the southeast corner of the house.
2Ch 4:11 , Hiram also made the pots, the shovels, and the basins. So Hiram finished the work that he did for
King Solomon on the house of God:
2Ch 4:12 the two pillars, the bowls, and the two capitals on the top of the pillars; and the two latticeworks tocover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the top of the pillars;
2Ch 4:13 and the 400 pomegranates for the two latticeworks, two rows of pomegranates for each latticework, to
cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the pillars.
2Ch 4:14 He made the stands also, and the basins on the stands,
2Ch 4:15 and the one sea, and the twelve oxen underneath it.
2Ch 4:16 The pots, the shovels, the forks, and all the equipment for these, Huram-abi made of burnished
bronze for King Solomon for the house of the LORD.
2Ch 4:17 In the plain of the Jordan the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zeredah.
2Ch 4:18 Solomon made all these things in great quantities, for the weight of the bronze was not sought.
2Ch 4:19 So Solomon made all the vessels that were in the house of God: the golden altar, the tables for the
bread of the Presence,
2Ch 4:20 the lampstands and their lamps of pure gold to burn before the inner sanctuary, as prescribed;
2Ch 4:21 the flowers, the lamps, and the tongs, of purest gold;
2Ch 4:22 the snuffers, basins, dishes for incense, and fire pans, of pure gold, and the sockets of the temple, for
the inner doors to the Most Holy Place and for the doors of the nave of the temple were of gold.
2Ch 5:1 Thus all the work that Solomon did for the house of the LORD was finished. And Solomon brought in
the things that David his father had dedicated, and stored the silver, the gold, and all the vessels in the
treasuries of the house of God.
2Ch 5:2 Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the leaders of the fathers'
houses of the people of Israel, in Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of the city of
David, which is Zion.
2Ch 5:3 And all the men of Israel assembled before the king at the feast that is in the seventh month.
2Ch 5:4 And all the elders of Israel came, and the Levites took up the ark.
2Ch 5:5 And they brought up the ark, the tent of meeting, and all the holy vessels that were in the tent; the
Levitical priests brought them up.
2Ch 5:6 And King Solomon and all the congregation of Israel, who had assembled before him, were before the
ark, sacrificing so many sheep and oxen that they could not be counted or numbered.
2Ch 5:7 Then the priests brought the ark of the covenant of the LORD to its place, in the inner sanctuary of the
house, in the Most Holy Place, underneath the wings of the cherubim.
2Ch 5:8 The cherubim spread out their wings over the place of the ark, so that the cherubim made a covering
above the ark and its poles.
2Ch 5:9 And the poles were so long that the ends of the poles were seen from the Holy Place before the inner
sanctuary, but they could not be seen from outside. And they are there to this day.
2Ch 5:10 There was nothing in the ark except the two tablets that Moses put there at Horeb, where the LORD
made a covenant with the people of Israel, when they came out of Egypt.
2Ch 5:11 And when the priests came out of the Holy Place (for all the priests who were present had
consecrated themselves, without regard to their divisions,
2Ch 5:12 and all the Levitical singers, Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun, their sons and kinsmen, arrayed in fine
linen, with cymbals, harps, and lyres, stood east of the altar with 120 priests who were trumpeters;
2Ch 5:13 and it was the duty of the trumpeters and singers to make themselves heard in unison in praise and
thanksgiving to the LORD), and when the song was raised, with trumpets and cymbals and other musical
instruments, in praise to the LORD, "For he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever," the house, the
house of the LORD, was filled with a cloud,
2Ch 5:14 so that the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud, for the glory of the LORD filled the
house of God.
2Ch 6:1 Then Solomon said, "The LORD has said that he would dwell in thick darkness.
2Ch 6:2 But I have built you an exalted house, a place for you to dwell in forever."
2Ch 6:3 Then the king turned around and blessed all the assembly of Israel, while all the assembly of Israel
stood.
2Ch 6:4 And he said, "Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, who with his hand has fulfilled what he promised
with his mouth to David my father, saying,
2Ch 6:5 'Since the day that I brought my people out of the land of Egypt, I chose no city out of all the tribes of
Israel in which to build a house, that my name might be there, and I chose no man as prince over my people
Israel;
2Ch 6:6 but I have chosen Jerusalem that my name may be there, and I have chosen David to be over my
people Israel.'
2Ch 6:7 Now it was in the heart of David my father to build a house for the name of the LORD, the God of Israel.
2Ch 6:8 But the LORD said to David my father, 'Whereas it was in your heart to build a house for my name, you
did well that it was in your heart.2Ch 6:9 Nevertheless, it is not you who shall build the house, but your son who shall be born to you shall build
the house for my name.'
2Ch 6:10 Now the LORD has fulfilled his promise that he made. For I have risen in the place of David my father
and sit on the throne of Israel, as the LORD promised, and I have built the house for the name of the LORD, the
God of Israel.
2Ch 6:11 And there I have set the ark, in which is the covenant of the LORD that he made with the people of
Israel."
2Ch 6:12 Then Solomon stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of all the assembly of Israel and
spread out his hands.
2Ch 6:13 Solomon had made a bronze platform five cubits long, five cubits wide, and three cubits high, and had
set it in the court, and he stood on it. Then he knelt on his knees in the presence of all the assembly of Israel,
and spread out his hands toward heaven,
2Ch 6:14 and said, "O LORD, God of Israel, there is no God like you, in heaven or on earth, keeping covenant
and showing steadfast love to your servants who walk before you with all their heart,
2Ch 6:15 who have kept with your servant David my father what you declared to him. You spoke with your
mouth, and with your hand have fulfilled it this day.
2Ch 6:16 Now therefore, O LORD, God of Israel, keep for your servant David my father what you have
promised him, saying, 'You shall not lack a man to sit before me on the throne of Israel, if only your sons pay
close attention to their way, to walk in my law as you have walked before me.'
2Ch 6:17 Now therefore, O LORD, God of Israel, let your word be confirmed, which you have spoken to your
servant David.
2Ch 6:18 "But will God indeed dwell with man on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot
contain you, how much less this house that I have built!
2Ch 6:19 Yet have regard to the prayer of your servant and to his plea, O LORD my God, listening to the cry
and to the prayer that your servant prays before you,
2Ch 6:20 that your eyes may be open day and night toward this house, the place where you have promised to
set your name, that you may listen to the prayer that your servant offers toward this place.
2Ch 6:21 And listen to the pleas of your servant and of your people Israel, when they pray toward this place.
And listen from heaven your dwelling place, and when you hear, forgive.
2Ch 6:22 "If a man sins against his neighbor and is made to take an oath and comes and swears his oath
before your altar in this house,
2Ch 6:23 then hear from heaven and act and judge your servants, repaying the guilty by bringing his conduct on
his own head, and vindicating the righteous by rewarding him according to his righteousness.
2Ch 6:24 "If your people Israel are defeated before the enemy because they have sinned against you, and they
turn again and acknowledge your name and pray and plead with you in this house,
2Ch 6:25 then hear from heaven and forgive the sin of your people Israel and bring them again to the land that
you gave to them and to their fathers.
2Ch 6:26 "When heaven is shut up and there is no rain because they have sinned against you, if they pray
toward this place and acknowledge your name and turn from their sin, when you afflict them,
2Ch 6:27 then hear in heaven and forgive the sin of your servants, your people Israel, when you teach them the
good way in which they should walk, and grant rain upon your land, which you have given to your people as an
inheritance.
2Ch 6:28 "If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence or blight or mildew or locust or caterpillar, if their
enemies besiege them in the land at their gates, whatever plague, whatever sickness there is,
2Ch 6:29 whatever prayer, whatever plea is made by any man or by all your people Israel, each knowing his
own affliction and his own sorrow and stretching out his hands toward this house,
2Ch 6:30 then hear from heaven your dwelling place and forgive and render to each whose heart you know,
according to all his ways, for you, you only, know the hearts of the children of mankind,
2Ch 6:31 that they may fear you and walk in your ways all the days that they live in the land that you gave to our
fathers.
2Ch 6:32 "Likewise, when a foreigner, who is not of your people Israel, comes from a far country for the sake of
your great name and your mighty hand and your outstretched arm, when he comes and prays toward this house,
2Ch 6:33 hear from heaven your dwelling place and do according to all for which the foreigner calls to you, in
order that all the peoples of the earth may know your name and fear you, as do your people Israel, and that they
may know that this house that I have built is called by your name.
2Ch 6:34 "If your people go out to battle against their enemies, by whatever way you shall send them, and they
pray to you toward this city that you have chosen and the house that I have built for your name,
2Ch 6:35 then hear from heaven their prayer and their plea, and maintain their cause.
2Ch 6:36 "If they sin against you- for there is no one who does not sin- and you are angry with them and givethem to an enemy, so that they are carried away captive to a land far or near,
2Ch 6:37 yet if they turn their heart in the land to which they have been carried captive, and repent and plead
with you in the land of their captivity, saying, 'We have sinned and have acted perversely and wickedly,'
2Ch 6:38 if they repent with all their mind and with all their heart in the land of their captivity to which they were
carried captive, and pray toward their land, which you gave to their fathers, the city that you have chosen and the
house that I have built for your name,
2Ch 6:39 then hear from heaven your dwelling place their prayer and their pleas, and maintain their cause and
forgive your people who have sinned against you.
2Ch 6:40 Now, O my God, let your eyes be open and your ears attentive to the prayer of this place.
2Ch 6:41 "And now arise, O LORD God, and go to your resting place, you and the ark of your might. Let your
priests, O LORD God, be clothed with salvation, and let your saints rejoice in your goodness.
2Ch 6:42 O LORD God, do not turn away the face of your anointed one! Remember your steadfast love for
David your servant."
2Ch 7:1 As soon as Solomon finished his prayer, fire came down from heaven and consumed the burnt offering
and the sacrifices, and the glory of the LORD filled the temple.
2Ch 7:2 And the priests could not enter the house of the LORD, because the glory of the LORD filled the
LORD's house.
2Ch 7:3 When all the people of Israel saw the fire come down and the glory of the LORD on the temple, they
bowed down with their faces to the ground on the pavement and worshiped and gave thanks to the LORD,
saying, "For he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever."
2Ch 7:4 Then the king and all the people offered sacrifice before the LORD.
2Ch 7:5 King Solomon offered as a sacrifice 22,000 oxen and 120,000 sheep. So the king and all the people
dedicated the house of God.
2Ch 7:6 The priests stood at their posts; the Levites also, with the instruments for music to the LORD that King
David had made for giving thanks to the LORD- for his steadfast love endures forever- whenever David offered
praises by their ministry; opposite them the priests sounded trumpets, and all Israel stood.
2Ch 7:7 And Solomon consecrated the middle of the court that was before the house of the LORD, for there he
offered the burnt offering and the fat of the peace offerings, because the bronze altar Solomon had made could
not hold the burnt offering and the grain offering and the fat.
2Ch 7:8 At that time Solomon held the feast for seven days, and all Israel with him, a very great assembly, from
Lebo-hamath to the Brook of Egypt.
2Ch 7:9 And on the eighth day they held a solemn assembly, for they had kept the dedication of the altar seven
days and the feast seven days.
2Ch 7:10 On the twenty-third day of the seventh month he sent the people away to their homes, joyful and glad
of heart for the prosperity that the LORD had granted to David and to Solomon and to Israel his people.
2Ch 7:11 Thus Solomon finished the house of the LORD and the king's house. All that Solomon had planned to
do in the house of the LORD and in his own house he successfully accomplished.
2Ch 7:12 Then the LORD appeared to Solomon in the night and said to him: "I have heard your prayer and
have chosen this place for myself as a house of sacrifice.
2Ch 7:13 When I shut up the heavens so that there is no rain, or command the locust to devour the land, or
send pestilence among my people,
2Ch 7:14 if my people who are called by my name humble themselves, and pray and seek my face and turn
from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land.
2Ch 7:15 Now my eyes will be open and my ears attentive to the prayer that is made in this place.
2Ch 7:16 For now I have chosen and consecrated this house that my name may be there forever. My eyes and
my heart will be there for all time.
2Ch 7:17 And as for you, if you will walk before me as David your father walked, doing according to all that I
have commanded you and keeping my statutes and my rules,
2Ch 7:18 then I will establish your royal throne, as I covenanted with David your father, saying, 'You shall not
lack a man to rule Israel.'
2Ch 7:19 "But if you turn aside and forsake my statutes and my commandments that I have set before you, and
go and serve other gods and worship them,
2Ch 7:20 then I will pluck you up from my land that I have given you, and this house that I have consecrated for
my name, I will cast out of my sight, and I will make it a proverb and a byword among all peoples.
2Ch 7:21 And at this house, which was exalted, everyone passing by will be astonished and say, 'Why has the
LORD done thus to this land and to this house?'
2Ch 7:22 Then they will say, 'Because they abandoned the LORD, the God of their fathers who brought them
out of the land of Egypt and laid hold on other gods and worshiped them and served them. Therefore he has
brought all this disaster on them.'"2Ch 8:1 At the end of twenty years, in which Solomon had built the house of the LORD and his own house,
2Ch 8:2 Solomon rebuilt the cities that Hiram had given to him, and settled the people of Israel in them.
2Ch 8:3 And Solomon went to Hamath-zobah and took it.
2Ch 8:4 He built Tadmor in the wilderness and all the store cities that he built in Hamath.
2Ch 8:5 He also built Upper Beth-horon and Lower Beth-horon, fortified cities with walls, gates, and bars,
2Ch 8:6 and Baalath, and all the store cities that Solomon had and all the cities for his chariots and the cities for
his horsemen, and whatever Solomon desired to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon, and in all the land of his
dominion.
2Ch 8:7 All the people who were left of the Hittites, the Amorites, the Per-izzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites,
who were not of Israel,
2Ch 8:8 from their descendants who were left after them in the land, whom the people of Israel had not
destroyed- these Solomon drafted as forced labor, and so they are to this day.
2Ch 8:9 But of the people of Israel Solomon made no slaves for his work; they were soldiers, and his officers,
the commanders of his chariots, and his horsemen.
2Ch 8:10 And these were the chief officers of King Solomon, 250, who exercised authority over the people.
2Ch 8:11 Solomon brought Pharaoh's daughter up from the city of David to the house that he had built for her,
for he said, "My wife shall not live in the house of David king of Israel, for the places to which the ark of the
LORD has come are holy."
2Ch 8:12 Then Solomon offered up burnt offerings to the LORD on the altar of the LORD that he had built
before the vestibule,
2Ch 8:13 as the duty of each day required, offering according to the commandment of Moses for the Sabbaths,
the new moons, and the three annual feasts- the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the Feast of Weeks, and the Feast
of Booths.
2Ch 8:14 According to the ruling of David his father, he appointed the divisions of the priests for their service,
and the Levites for their offices of praise and ministry before the priests as the duty of each day required, and the
gatekeepers in their divisions at each gate, for so David the man of God had commanded.
2Ch 8:15 And they did not turn aside from what the king had commanded the priests and Levites concerning
any matter and concerning the treasuries.
2Ch 8:16 Thus was accomplished all the work of Solomon from the day the foundation of the house of the
LORD was laid until it was finished. So the house of the LORD was completed.
2Ch 8:17 Then Solomon went to Ezion-geber and Eloth on the shore of the sea, in the land of Edom.
2Ch 8:18 And Hiram sent to him by the hand of his servants ships and servants familiar with the sea, and they
went to Ophir together with the servants of Solomon and brought from there 450 talents of gold and brought it to
King Solomon.
2Ch 9:1 Now when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon, she came to Jerusalem to test him with
hard questions, having a very great retinue and camels bearing spices and very much gold and precious stones.
And when she came to Solomon, she told him all that was on her mind.
2Ch 9:2 And Solomon answered all her questions. There was nothing hidden from Solomon that he could not
explain to her.
2Ch 9:3 And when the queen of Sheba had seen the wisdom of Solomon, the house that he had built,
2Ch 9:4 the food of his table, the seating of his officials, and the attendance of his servants, and their clothing,
his cupbearers, and their clothing, and his burnt offerings that he offered at the house of the LORD, there was no
more breath in her.
2Ch 9:5 And she said to the king, "The report was true that I heard in my own land of your words and of your
wisdom,
2Ch 9:6 but I did not believe the reports until I came and my own eyes had seen it. And behold, half the
greatness of your wisdom was not told me; you surpass the report that I heard.
2Ch 9:7 Happy are your wives! Happy are these your servants, who continually stand before you and hear your
wisdom!
2Ch 9:8 Blessed be the LORD your God, who has delighted in you and set you on his throne as king for the
LORD your God! Because your God loved Israel and would establish them forever, he has made you king over
them, that you may execute justice and righteousness."
2Ch 9:9 Then she gave the king 120 talents of gold, and a very great quantity of spices, and precious stones.
There were no spices such as those that the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon.
2Ch 9:10 Moreover, the servants of Hiram and the servants of Solomon, who brought gold from Ophir, brought
algum wood and precious stones.
2Ch 9:11 And the king made from the algum wood supports for the house of the LORD and for the king's house,
lyres also and harps for the singers. There never was seen the like of them before in the land of Judah.
2Ch 9:12 And King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all that she desired, whatever she asked besides whatshe had brought to the king. So she turned and went back to her own land with her servants.
2Ch 9:13 Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was 666 talents of gold,
2Ch 9:14 besides that which the explorers and merchants brought. And all the kings of Arabia and the
governors of the land brought gold and silver to Solomon.
2Ch 9:15 King Solomon made 200 large shields of beaten gold; 600 shekels of beaten gold went into each
shield.
2Ch 9:16 And he made 300 shields of beaten gold; 300 shekels of gold went into each shield; and the king put
them in the House of the Forest of Lebanon.
2Ch 9:17 The king also made a great ivory throne and overlaid it with pure gold.
2Ch 9:18 The throne had six steps and a footstool of gold, which were attached to the throne, and on each side
of the seat were arm rests and two lions standing beside the arm rests,
2Ch 9:19 while twelve lions stood there, one on each end of a step on the six steps. Nothing like it was ever
made for any kingdom.
2Ch 9:20 All King Solomon's drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the House of the Forest of
Lebanon were of pure gold. Silver was not considered as anything in the days of Solomon.
2Ch 9:21 For the king's ships went to Tarshish with the servants of Hiram. Once every three years the ships of
Tarshish used to come bringing gold, silver, ivory, apes, and peacocks.
2Ch 9:22 Thus King Solomon excelled all the kings of the earth in riches and in wisdom.
2Ch 9:23 And all the kings of the earth sought the presence of Solomon to hear his wisdom, which God had put
into his mind.
2Ch 9:24 Every one of them brought his present, articles of silver and of gold, garments, myrrh, spices, horses,
and mules, so much year by year.
2Ch 9:25 And Solomon had 4,000 stalls for horses and chariots, and 12,000 horsemen, whom he stationed in
the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem.
2Ch 9:26 And he ruled over all the kings from the Euphrates to the land of the Philistines and to the border of
Egypt.
2Ch 9:27 And the king made silver as common in Jerusalem as stone, and he made cedar as plentiful as the
sycamore of the Shephelah.
2Ch 9:28 And horses were imported for Solomon from Egypt and from all lands.
2Ch 9:29 Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, from first to last, are they not written in the history of Nathan the
prophet, and in the prophecy of Ahijah the Shilonite, and in the visions of Iddo the seer concerning Jeroboam the
son of Nebat?
2Ch 9:30 Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel forty years.
2Ch 9:31 And Solomon slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David his father, and Rehoboam his
son reigned in his place.
2Ch 10:1 Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king.
2Ch 10:2 And as soon as Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard of it (for he was in Egypt, where he had fled from
King Solomon), then Jeroboam returned from Egypt.
2Ch 10:3 And they sent and called him. And Jeroboam and all Israel came and said to Rehoboam,
2Ch 10:4 "Your father made our yoke heavy. Now therefore lighten the hard service of your father and his heavy
yoke on us, and we will serve you."
2Ch 10:5 He said to them, "Come to me again in three days." So the people went away.
2Ch 10:6 Then King Rehoboam took counsel with the old men, who had stood before Solomon his father while
he was yet alive, saying, "How do you advise me to answer this people?"
2Ch 10:7 And they said to him, "If you will be good to this people and please them and speak good words to
them, then they will be your servants forever."
2Ch 10:8 But he abandoned the counsel that the old men gave him, and took counsel with the young men who
had grown up with him and stood before him.
2Ch 10:9 And he said to them, "What do you advise that we answer this people who have said to me, 'Lighten
the yoke that your father put on us'?"
2Ch 10:10 And the young men who had grown up with him said to him, "Thus shall you speak to the people who
said to you, 'Your father made our yoke heavy, but you lighten it for us'; thus shall you say to them, 'My little
finger is thicker than my father's thighs.
2Ch 10:11 And now, whereas my father laid on you a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke. My father disciplined
you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions.'"
2Ch 10:12 So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day, as the king said, "Come to me
again the third day."
2Ch 10:13 And the king answered them harshly; and forsaking the counsel of the old men,
2Ch 10:14 King Rehoboam spoke to them according to the counsel of the young men, saying, "My father madeyour yoke heavy, but I will add to it. My father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions."
2Ch 10:15 So the king did not listen to the people, for it was a turn of affairs brought about by God that the
LORD might fulfill his word, which he spoke by Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
2Ch 10:16 And when all Israel saw that the king did not listen to them, the people answered the king, "What
portion have we in David? We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse. Each of you to your tents, O Israel! Look
now to your own house, David." So all Israel went to their tents.
2Ch 10:17 But Rehoboam reigned over the people of Israel who lived in the cities of Judah.
2Ch 10:18 Then King Rehoboam sent Hadoram, who was taskmaster over the forced labor, and the people of
Israel stoned him to death with stones. And King Rehoboam quickly mounted his chariot to flee to Jerusalem.
2Ch 10:19 So Israel has been in rebellion against the house of David to this day.
2Ch 11:1 When Rehoboam came to Jerusalem, he assembled the house of Judah and Benjamin, 180,000
chosen warriors, to fight against Israel, to restore the kingdom to Rehoboam.
2Ch 11:2 But the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah the man of God:
2Ch 11:3 "Say to Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all Israel in Judah and Benjamin,
2Ch 11:4 'Thus says the LORD, You shall not go up or fight against your relatives. Return every man to his
home, for this thing is from me.'"So they listened to the word of the LORD and returned and did not go against
Jeroboam.
2Ch 11:5 Rehoboam lived in Jerusalem, and he built cities for defense in Judah.
2Ch 11:6 He built Bethlehem, Etam, Tekoa,
2Ch 11:7 Beth-zur, Soco, Adullam,
2Ch 11:8 Gath, Mareshah, Ziph,
2Ch 11:9 Adoraim, Lachish, Azekah,
2Ch 11:10 Zorah, Aijalon, and Hebron, fortified cities that are in Judah and in Benjamin.
2Ch 11:11 He made the fortresses strong, and put commanders in them, and stores of food, oil, and wine.
2Ch 11:12 And he put shields and spears in all the cities and made them very strong. So he held Judah and
Benjamin.
2Ch 11:13 And the priests and the Levites who were in all Israel presented themselves to him from all places
where they lived.
2Ch 11:14 For the Levites left their common lands and their holdings and came to Judah and Jerusalem,
because Jeroboam and his sons cast them out from serving as priests of the LORD,
2Ch 11:15 and he appointed his own priests for the high places and for the goat idols and for the calves that he
had made.
2Ch 11:16 And those who had set their hearts to seek the LORD God of Israel came after them from all the
tribes of Israel to Jerusalem to sacrifice to the LORD, the God of their fathers.
2Ch 11:17 They strengthened the kingdom of Judah, and for three years they made Rehoboam the son of
Solomon secure, for they walked for three years in the way of David and Solomon.
2Ch 11:18 Rehoboam took as wife Mahalath the daughter of Jerimoth the son of David, and of Abihail the
daughter of Eliab the son of Jesse,
2Ch 11:19 and she bore him sons, Jeush, Shemariah, and Zaham.
2Ch 11:20 After her he took Maacah the daughter of Absalom, who bore him Abijah, Attai, Ziza, and Shelomith.
2Ch 11:21 Rehoboam loved Maacah the daughter of Absalom above all his wives and concubines (he took
eighteen wives and sixty concubines, and fathered twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters).
2Ch 11:22 And Rehoboam appointed Abijah the son of Maacah as chief prince among his brothers, for he
intended to make him king.
2Ch 11:23 And he dealt wisely and distributed some of his sons through all the districts of Judah and Benjamin,
in all the fortified cities, and he gave them abundant provisions and procured wives for them.
2Ch 12:1 When the rule of Rehoboam was established and he was strong, he abandoned the law of the LORD,
and all Israel with him.
2Ch 12:2 In the fifth year of King Rehoboam, because they had been unfaithful to the LORD, Shishak king of
Egypt came up against Jerusalem
2Ch 12:3 with 1,200 chariots and 60,000 horsemen. And the people were without number who came with him
from Egypt- Libyans, Sukkiim, and Ethiopians.
2Ch 12:4 And he took the fortified cities of Judah and came as far as Jerusalem.
2Ch 12:5 Then Shemaiah the prophet came to Rehoboam and to the princes of Judah, who had gathered at
Jerusalem because of Shishak, and said to them, "Thus says the LORD, 'You abandoned me, so I have
abandoned you to the hand of Shishak.'"
2Ch 12:6 Then the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves and said, "The LORD is righteous."
2Ch 12:7 When the LORD saw that they humbled themselves, the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah: "They
have humbled themselves. I will not destroy them, but I will grant them some deliverance, and my wrath shall notbe poured out on Jerusalem by the hand of Shishak.
2Ch 12:8 Nevertheless, they shall be servants to him, that they may know my service and the service of the
kingdoms of the countries."
2Ch 12:9 So Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem. He took away the treasures of the house of the
LORD and the treasures of the king's house. He took away everything. He also took away the shields of gold
that Solomon had made,
2Ch 12:10 and King Rehoboam made in their place shields of bronze and committed them to the hands of the
officers of the guard, who kept the door of the king's house.
2Ch 12:11 And as often as the king went into the house of the LORD, the guard came and carried them and
brought them back to the guardroom.
2Ch 12:12 And when he humbled himself the wrath of the LORD turned from him, so as not to make a complete
destruction. Moreover, conditions were good in Judah.
2Ch 12:13 So King Rehoboam grew strong in Jerusalem and reigned. Rehoboam was forty-one years old when
he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city that the LORD had chosen out of all
the tribes of Israel to put his name there. His mother's name was Naamah the Ammonite.
2Ch 12:14 And he did evil, for he did not set his heart to seek the LORD.
2Ch 12:15 Now the acts of Rehoboam, from first to last, are they not written in the chronicles of Shemaiah the
prophet and of Iddo the seer? There were continual wars between Rehoboam and Jeroboam.
2Ch 12:16 And Rehoboam slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David, and Abijah his son reigned
in his place.
2Ch 13:1 In the eighteenth year of King Jeroboam, Abijah began to reign over Judah.
2Ch 13:2 He reigned for three years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Micaiah the daughter of Uriel of
Gibeah. Now there was war between Abijah and Jeroboam.
2Ch 13:3 Abijah went out to battle, having an army of valiant men of war, 400,000 chosen men. And Jeroboam
drew up his line of battle against him with 800,000 chosen mighty warriors.
2Ch 13:4 Then Abijah stood up on Mount Zemaraim that is in the hill country of Ephraim and said, "Hear me, O
Jeroboam and all Israel!
2Ch 13:5 Ought you not to know that the LORD God of Israel gave the kingship over Israel forever to David and
his sons by a covenant of salt?
2Ch 13:6 Yet Jeroboam the son of Nebat, a servant of Solomon the son of David, rose up and rebelled against
his lord,
2Ch 13:7 and certain worthless scoundrels gathered about him and defied Rehoboam the son of Solomon,
when Rehoboam was young and irresolute and could not withstand them.
2Ch 13:8 "And now you think to withstand the kingdom of the LORD in the hand of the sons of David, because
you are a great multitude and have with you the golden calves that Jeroboam made you for gods.
2Ch 13:9 Have you not driven out the priests of the LORD, the sons of Aaron, and the Levites, and made priests
for yourselves like the peoples of other lands? Whoever comes for ordination with a young bull or seven rams
becomes a priest of what are no gods.
2Ch 13:10 But as for us, the LORD is our God, and we have not forsaken him. We have priests ministering to
the LORD who are sons of Aaron, and Levites for their service.
2Ch 13:11 They offer to the LORD every morning and every evening burnt offerings and incense of sweet
spices, set out the showbread on the table of pure gold, and care for the golden lampstand that its lamps may
burn every evening. For we keep the charge of the LORD our God, but you have forsaken him.
2Ch 13:12 Behold, God is with us at our head, and his priests with their battle trumpets to sound the call to
battle against you. O sons of Israel, do not fight against the LORD, the God of your fathers, for you cannot
succeed."
2Ch 13:13 Jeroboam had sent an ambush around to come upon them from behind. Thus his troops were in
front of Judah, and the ambush was behind them.
2Ch 13:14 And when Judah looked, behold, the battle was in front of and behind them. And they cried to the
LORD, and the priests blew the trumpets.
2Ch 13:15 Then the men of Judah raised the battle shout. And when the men of Judah shouted, God defeated
Jeroboam and all Israel before Abijah and Judah.
2Ch 13:16 The men of Israel fled before Judah, and God gave them into their hand.
2Ch 13:17 Abijah and his people struck them with great force, so there fell slain of Israel 500,000 chosen men.
2Ch 13:18 Thus the men of Israel were subdued at that time, and the men of Judah prevailed, because they
relied on the LORD, the God of their fathers.
2Ch 13:19 And Abijah pursued Jeroboam and took cities from him, Bethel with its villages and Jeshanah with its
villages and Ephron with its villages.
2Ch 13:20 Jeroboam did not recover his power in the days of Abijah. And the LORD struck him down, and hedied.
2Ch 13:21 But Abijah grew mighty. And he took fourteen wives and had twenty-two sons and sixteen daughters.
2Ch 13:22 The rest of the acts of Abijah, his ways and his sayings, are written in the story of the prophet Iddo.
2Ch 14:1 Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David. And Asa his son reigned in his
place. In his days the land had rest for ten years.
2Ch 14:2 And Asa did what was good and right in the eyes of the LORD his God.
2Ch 14:3 He took away the foreign altars and the high places and broke down the pillars and cut down the
Asherim
2Ch 14:4 and commanded Judah to seek the LORD, the God of their fathers, and to keep the law and the
commandment.
2Ch 14:5 He also took out of all the cities of Judah the high places and the incense altars. And the kingdom had
rest under him.
2Ch 14:6 He built fortified cities in Judah, for the land had rest. He had no war in those years, for the LORD
gave him peace.
2Ch 14:7 And he said to Judah, "Let us build these cities and surround them with walls and towers, gates and
bars. The land is still ours, because we have sought the LORD our God. We have sought him, and he has given
us peace on every side." So they built and prospered.
2Ch 14:8 And Asa had an army of 300,000 from Judah, armed with large shields and spears, and 280,000 men
from Benjamin that carried shields and drew bows. All these were mighty men of valor.
2Ch 14:9 Zerah the Ethiopian came out against them with an army of a million men and 300 chariots, and came
as far as Mareshah.
2Ch 14:10 And Asa went out to meet him, and they drew up their lines of battle in the Valley of Zephathah at
Mareshah.
2Ch 14:11 And Asa cried to the LORD his God, "O LORD, there is none like you to help, between the mighty
and the weak. Help us, O LORD our God, for we rely on you, and in your name we have come against this
multitude. O LORD, you are our God; let not man prevail against you."
2Ch 14:12 So the LORD defeated the Ethiopians before Asa and before Judah, and the Ethiopians fled.
2Ch 14:13 Asa and the people who were with him pursued them as far as Gerar, and the Ethiopians fell until
none remained alive, for they were broken before the LORD and his army. The men of Judah carried away very
much spoil.
2Ch 14:14 And they attacked all the cities around Gerar, for the fear of the LORD was upon them. They
plundered all the cities, for there was much plunder in them.
2Ch 14:15 And they struck down the tents of those who had livestock and carried away sheep in abundance
and camels. Then they returned to Jerusalem.
2Ch 15:1 The Spirit of God came upon Azariah the son of Oded,
2Ch 15:2 and he went out to meet Asa and said to him, "Hear me, Asa, and all Judah and Benjamin: The LORD
is with you while you are with him. If you seek him, he will be found by you, but if you forsake him, he will forsake
you.
2Ch 15:3 For a long time Israel was without the true God, and without a teaching priest and without law,
2Ch 15:4 but when in their distress they turned to the LORD, the God of Israel, and sought him, he was found
by them.
2Ch 15:5 In those times there was no peace to him who went out or to him who came in, for great disturbances
afflicted all the inhabitants of the lands.
2Ch 15:6 They were broken in pieces. Nation was crushed by nation and city by city, for God troubled them with
every sort of distress.
2Ch 15:7 But you, take courage! Do not let you hands be weak, for your work shall be rewarded."
2Ch 15:8 As soon as Asa heard these words, the prophecy of Azariah the son of Oded, he took courage and
put away the detestable idols from all the land of Judah and Benjamin and from the cities that he had taken in
the hill country of Ephraim, and he repaired the altar of the LORD that was in front of the vestibule of the house
of the LORD.
2Ch 15:9 And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin, and those from Ephraim, Manasseh, and Simeon who were
residing with them, for great numbers had deserted to him from Israel when they saw that the LORD his God
was with him.
2Ch 15:10 They were gathered at Jerusalem in the third month of the fifteenth year of the reign of Asa.
2Ch 15:11 They sacrificed to the LORD on that day from the spoil that they had brought 700 oxen and 7,000
sheep.
2Ch 15:12 And they entered into a covenant to seek the LORD, the God of their fathers, with all their heart and
with all their soul,
2Ch 15:13 but that whoever would not seek the LORD, the God of Israel, should be put to death, whether youngor old, man or woman.
2Ch 15:14 They swore an oath to the LORD with a loud voice and with shouting and with trumpets and with
horns.
2Ch 15:15 And all Judah rejoiced over the oath, for they had sworn with all their heart and had sought him with
their whole desire, and he was found by them, and the LORD gave them rest all around.
2Ch 15:16 Even Maacah, his mother, King Asa removed from being queen mother because she had made a
detestable image for Asherah. Asa cut down her image, crushed it, and burned it at the brook Kidron.
2Ch 15:17 But the high places were not taken out of Israel. Nevertheless, the heart of Asa was wholly true all
his days.
2Ch 15:18 And he brought into the house of God the sacred gifts of his father and his own sacred gifts, silver,
and gold, and vessels.
2Ch 15:19 And there was no more war until the thirty-fifth year of the reign of Asa.
2Ch 16:1 In the thirty-sixth year of the reign of Asa, Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah and built
Ramah, that he might permit no one to go out or come in to Asa king of Judah.
2Ch 16:2 Then Asa took silver and gold from the treasures of the house of the LORD and the king's house and
sent them to Ben-hadad king of Syria, who lived in Damascus, saying,
2Ch 16:3 "There is a covenant between me and you, as there was between my father and your father. Behold, I
am sending to you silver and gold. Go, break your covenant with Baasha king of Israel, that he may withdraw
from me."
2Ch 16:4 And Ben-hadad listened to King Asa and sent the commanders of his armies against the cities of
Israel, and they conquered Ijon, Dan, Abel-maim, and all the store cities of Naphtali.
2Ch 16:5 And when Baasha heard of it, he stopped building Ramah and let his work cease.
2Ch 16:6 Then King Asa took all Judah, and they carried away the stones of Ramah and its timber, with which
Baasha had been building, and with them he built Geba and Mizpah.
2Ch 16:7 At that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah and said to him, "Because you relied on the
king of Syria, and did not rely on the LORD your God, the army of the king of Syria has escaped you.
2Ch 16:8 Were not the Ethiopians and the Libyans a huge army with very many chariots and horsemen? Yet
because you relied on the LORD, he gave them into your hand.
2Ch 16:9 For the eyes of the LORD run to and fro throughout the whole earth, to give strong support to those
whose heart is blameless toward him. You have done foolishly in this, for from now on you will have wars."
2Ch 16:10 Then Asa was angry with the seer and put him in the stocks in prison, for he was in a rage with him
because of this. And Asa inflicted cruelties upon some of the people at the same time.
2Ch 16:11 The acts of Asa, from first to last, are written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel.
2Ch 16:12 In the thirty-ninth year of his reign Asa was diseased in his feet, and his disease became severe. Yet
even in his disease he did not seek the LORD, but sought help from physicians.
2Ch 16:13 And Asa slept with his fathers, dying in the forty-first year of his reign.
2Ch 16:14 They buried him in the tomb that he had cut for himself in the city of David. They laid him on a bier
that had been filled with various kinds of spices prepared by the perfumer's art, and they made a very great fire
in his honor.
2Ch 17:1 Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place and strengthened himself against Israel.
2Ch 17:2 He placed forces in all the fortified cities of Judah and set garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the
cities of Ephraim that Asa his father had captured.
2Ch 17:3 The LORD was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the earlier ways of his father David. He did
not seek the Baals,
2Ch 17:4 but sought the God of his father and walked in his commandments, and not according to the practices
of Israel.
2Ch 17:5 Therefore the LORD established the kingdom in his hand. And all Judah brought tribute to
Jehoshaphat, and he had great riches and honor.
2Ch 17:6 His heart was courageous in the ways of the LORD. And furthermore, he took the high places and the
Asherim out of Judah.
2Ch 17:7 In the third year of his reign he sent his officials, Ben-hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel, and Micaiah,
to teach in the cities of Judah;
2Ch 17:8 and with them the Levites, Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Je-honathan,
Adonijah, Tobijah, and Tobadonijah; and with these Levites, the priests Elishama and Jehoram.
2Ch 17:9 And they taught in Judah, having the Book of the Law of the LORD with them. They went about
through all the cities of Judah and taught among the people.
2Ch 17:10 And the fear of the LORD fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands that were around Judah, and they
made no war against Jehoshaphat.
2Ch 17:11 Some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents and silver for tribute, and the Arabians alsobrought him 7,700 rams and 7,700 goats.
2Ch 17:12 And Jehoshaphat grew steadily greater. He built in Judah fortresses and store cities,
2Ch 17:13 and he had large supplies in the cities of Judah. He had soldiers, mighty men of valor, in Jerusalem.
2Ch 17:14 This was the muster of them by fathers' houses: Of Judah, the commanders of thousands: Adnah the
commander, with 300,000 mighty men of valor;
2Ch 17:15 and next to him Jehohanan the commander, with 280,000;
2Ch 17:16 and next to him Amasiah the son of Zichri, a volunteer for the service of the LORD, with 200,000
mighty men of valor.
2Ch 17:17 Of Benjamin: Eliada, a mighty man of valor, with 200,000 men armed with bow and shield;
2Ch 17:18 and next to him Jehozabad with 180,000 armed for war.
2Ch 17:19 These were in the service of the king, besides those whom the king had placed in the fortified cities
throughout all Judah.
2Ch 18:1 Now Jehoshaphat had great riches and honor, and he made a marriage alliance with Ahab.
2Ch 18:2 After some years he went down to Ahab in Samaria. And Ahab killed an abundance of sheep and
oxen for him and for the people who were with him, and induced him to go up against Ramoth-gilead.
2Ch 18:3 Ahab king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat king of Judah, "Will you go with me to Ramoth-gilead?" He
answered him, "I am as you are, my people as your people. We will be with you in the war."
2Ch 18:4 And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, "Inquire first for the word of the LORD."
2Ch 18:5 Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, four hundred men, and said to them, "Shall we
go to battle against Ramoth-gilead, or shall I refrain?" And they said, "Go up, for God will give it into the hand of
the king."
2Ch 18:6 But Jehoshaphat said, "Is there not here another prophet of the LORD of whom we may inquire?"
2Ch 18:7 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of the
LORD, Micaiah the son of Imlah; but I hate him, for he never prophesies good concerning me, but always evil."
And Jehoshaphat said, "Let not the king say so."
2Ch 18:8 Then the king of Israel summoned an officer and said, "Bring quickly Micaiah the son of Imlah."
2Ch 18:9 Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah were sitting on their thrones, arrayed in their
robes. And they were sitting at the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Samaria, and all the prophets
were prophesying before them.
2Ch 18:10 And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made for himself horns of iron and said, "Thus says the LORD,
'With these you shall push the Syrians until they are destroyed.'"
2Ch 18:11 And all the prophets prophesied so and said, "Go up to Ramoth-gilead and triumph. The LORD will
give it into the hand of the king."
2Ch 18:12 And the messenger who went to summon Micaiah said to him, "Behold, the words of the prophets
with one accord are favorable to the king. Let your word be like the word of one of them, and speak favorably."
2Ch 18:13 But Micaiah said, "As the LORD lives, what my God says, that I will speak."
2Ch 18:14 And when he had come to the king, the king said to him, "Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to
battle, or shall I refrain?" And he answered, "Go up and triumph; they will be given into your hand."
2Ch 18:15 But the king said to him, "How many times shall I make you swear that you speak to me nothing but
the truth in the name of the LORD?"
2Ch 18:16 And he said, "I saw all Israel scattered on the mountains, as sheep that have no shepherd. And the
LORD said, 'These have no master; let each return to his home in peace.'"
2Ch 18:17 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "Did I not tell you that he would not prophesy good
concerning me, but evil?"
2Ch 18:18 And Micaiah said, "Therefore hear the word of the LORD: I saw the LORD sitting on his throne, and
all the host of heaven standing on his right hand and on his left.
2Ch 18:19 And the LORD said, 'Who will entice Ahab the king of Israel, that he may go up and fall at Ramothgilead?' And one said one thing, and another said another.
2Ch 18:20 Then a spirit came forward and stood before the LORD, saying, 'I will entice him.' And the LORD said
to him, 'By what means?'
2Ch 18:21 And he said, 'I will go out, and will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.' And he said, 'You
are to entice him, and you shall succeed; go out and do so.'
2Ch 18:22 Now therefore behold, the LORD has put a lying spirit in the mouth of these your prophets. The
LORD has declared disaster concerning you."
2Ch 18:23 Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near and struck Micaiah on the cheek and said, "Which
way did the Spirit of the LORD go from me to speak to you?"
2Ch 18:24 And Micaiah said, "Behold, you shall see on that day when you go into an inner chamber to hide
yourself."
2Ch 18:25 And the king of Israel said, "Seize Micaiah and take him back to Amon the governor of the city and toJoash the king's son,
2Ch 18:26 and say, 'Thus says the king, Put this fellow in prison and feed him with meager rations of bread and
water until I return in peace.'"
2Ch 18:27 And Micaiah said, "If you return in peace, the LORD has not spoken by me." And he said, "Hear, all
you peoples!"
2Ch 18:28 So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead.
2Ch 18:29 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "I will disguise myself and go into battle, but you wear
your robes." And the king of Israel disguised himself, and they went into battle.
2Ch 18:30 Now the king of Syria had commanded the captains of his chariots, "Fight with neither small nor
great, but only with the king of Israel."
2Ch 18:31 As soon as the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they said, "It is the king of Israel." So they
turned to fight against him. And Jehoshaphat cried out, and the LORD helped him; God drew them away from
him.
2Ch 18:32 For as soon as the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back
from pursuing him.
2Ch 18:33 But a certain man drew his bow at random and struck the king of Israel between the scale armor and
the breastplate. Therefore he said to the driver of his chariot, "Turn around and carry me out of the battle, for I
am wounded."
2Ch 18:34 And the battle continued that day, and the king of Israel was propped up in his chariot facing the
Syrians until evening. Then at sunset he died.
2Ch 19:1 Jehoshaphat the king of Judah returned in safety to his house in Jerusalem.
2Ch 19:2 But Jehu the son of Hanani the seer went out to meet him and said to King Jehoshaphat, "Should you
help the wicked and love those who hate the LORD? Because of this, wrath has gone out against you from the
LORD.
2Ch 19:3 Nevertheless, some good is found in you, for you destroyed the Asherahs out of the land, and have
set your heart to seek God."
2Ch 19:4 Jehoshaphat lived at Jerusalem. And he went out again among the people, from Beersheba to the hill
country of Ephraim, and brought them back to the LORD, the God of their fathers.
2Ch 19:5 He appointed judges in the land in all the fortified cities of Judah, city by city,
2Ch 19:6 and said to the judges, "Consider what you do, for you judge not for man but for the LORD. He is with
you in giving judgment.
2Ch 19:7 Now then, let the fear of the LORD be upon you. Be careful what you do, for there is no injustice with
the LORD our God, or partiality or taking bribes."
2Ch 19:8 Moreover, in Jerusalem Jehoshaphat appointed certain Levites and priests and heads of families of
Israel, to give judgment for the LORD and to decide disputed cases. They had their seat at Jerusalem.
2Ch 19:9 And he charged them: "Thus you shall do in the fear of the LORD, in faithfulness, and with your whole
heart:
2Ch 19:10 whenever a case comes to you from your brothers who live in their cities, concerning bloodshed, law
or commandment, statutes or rules, then you shall warn them, that they may not incur guilt before the LORD and
wrath may not come upon you and your brothers. Thus you shall do, and you will not incur guilt.
2Ch 19:11 And behold, Amariah the chief priest is over you in all matters of the LORD; and Zebadiah the son of
Ishmael, the governor of the house of Judah, in all the king's matters, and the Levites will serve you as officers.
Deal courageously, and may the LORD be with the upright!"
2Ch 20:1 After this the Moabites and Ammonites, and with them some of the Meunites, came against
Jehoshaphat for battle.
2Ch 20:2 Some men came and told Jehoshaphat, "A great multitude is coming against you from Edom, from
beyond the sea; and, behold, they are in Hazazon-tamar" (that is, Engedi).
2Ch 20:3 Then Jehoshaphat was afraid and set his face to seek the LORD, and proclaimed a fast throughout all
Judah.
2Ch 20:4 And Judah assembled to seek help from the LORD; from all the cities of Judah they came to seek the
LORD.
2Ch 20:5 And Jehoshaphat stood in the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem, in the house of the LORD, before
the new court,
2Ch 20:6 and said, "O LORD, God of our fathers, are you not God in heaven? You rule over all the kingdoms of
the nations. In your hand are power and might, so that none is able to withstand you.
2Ch 20:7 Did you not, our God, drive out the inhabitants of this land before your people Israel, and give it
forever to the descendants of Abraham your friend?
2Ch 20:8 And they have lived in it and have built for you in it a sanctuary for your name, saying,
2Ch 20:9 'If disaster comes upon us, the sword, judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we will stand before thishouse and before you- for your name is in this house- and cry out to you in our affliction, and you will hear and
save.'
2Ch 20:10 And now behold, the men of Ammon and Moab and Mount Seir, whom you would not let Israel
invade when they came from the land of Egypt, and whom they avoided and did not destroy-
2Ch 20:11 behold, they reward us by coming to drive us out of your possession, which you have given us to
inherit.
2Ch 20:12 O our God, will you not execute judgment on them? For we are powerless against this great horde
that is coming against us. We do not know what to do, but our eyes are on you."
2Ch 20:13 Meanwhile all Judah stood before the LORD, with their little ones, their wives, and their children.
2Ch 20:14 And the Spirit of the LORD came upon Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, son of Benaiah, son of Jeiel,
son of Mattaniah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph, in the midst of the assembly.
2Ch 20:15 And he said, "Listen, all Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem and King Jehoshaphat: Thus says the
LORD to you, 'Do not be afraid and do not be dismayed at this great horde, for the battle is not yours but God's.
2Ch 20:16 Tomorrow go down against them. Behold, they will come up by the ascent of Ziz. You will find them
at the end of the valley, east of the wilderness of Jeruel.
2Ch 20:17 You will not need to fight in this battle. Stand firm, hold your position, and see the salvation of the
LORD on your behalf, O Judah and Jerusalem.' Do not be afraid and do not be dismayed. Tomorrow go out
against them, and the LORD will be with you."
2Ch 20:18 Then Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground, and all Judah and the inhabitants of
Jerusalem fell down before the LORD, worshiping the LORD.
2Ch 20:19 And the Levites, of the Kohathites and the Korahites, stood up to praise the LORD, the God of Israel,
with a very loud voice.
2Ch 20:20 And they rose early in the morning and went out into the wilderness of Tekoa. And when they went
out, Jehoshaphat stood and said, "Hear me, Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem! Believe in the LORD your God,
and you will be established; believe his prophets, and you will succeed."
2Ch 20:21 And when he had taken counsel with the people, he appointed those who were to sing to the LORD
and praise him in holy attire, as they went before the army, and say, "Give thanks to the LORD, for his steadfast
love endures forever."
2Ch 20:22 And when they began to sing and praise, the LORD set an ambush against the men of Ammon,
Moab, and Mount Seir, who had come against Judah, so that they were routed.
2Ch 20:23 For the men of Ammon and Moab rose against the inhabitants of Mount Seir, devoting them to
destruction, and when they had made an end of the inhabitants of Seir, they all helped to destroy one another.
2Ch 20:24 When Judah came to the watchtower of the wilderness, they looked toward the horde, and behold,
there were dead bodies lying on the ground; none had escaped.
2Ch 20:25 When Jehoshaphat and his people came to take their spoil, they found among them, in great
numbers, goods, clothing, and precious things, which they took for themselves until they could carry no more.
They were three days in taking the spoil, it was so much.
2Ch 20:26 On the fourth day they assembled in the Valley of Beracah, for there they blessed the LORD.
Therefore the name of that place has been called the Valley of Beracah to this day.
2Ch 20:27 Then they returned, every man of Judah and Jerusalem, and Jehoshaphat at their head, returning to
Jerusalem with joy, for the LORD had made them rejoice over their enemies.
2Ch 20:28 They came to Jerusalem with harps and lyres and trumpets, to the house of the LORD.
2Ch 20:29 And the fear of God came on all the kingdoms of the countries when they heard that the LORD had
fought against the enemies of Israel.
2Ch 20:30 So the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet, for his God gave him rest all around.
2Ch 20:31 Thus Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah. He was thirty-five years old when he began to reign, and he
reigned twenty-five years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.
2Ch 20:32 He walked in the way of Asa his father and did not turn aside from it, doing what was right in the sight
of the LORD.
2Ch 20:33 The high places, however, were not taken away; the people had not yet set their hearts upon the
God of their fathers.
2Ch 20:34 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, from first to last, are written in the chronicles of Jehu the
son of Hanani, which are recorded in the Book of the Kings of Israel.
2Ch 20:35 After this Jehoshaphat king of Judah joined with Ahaziah king of Israel, who acted wickedly.
2Ch 20:36 He joined him in building ships to go to Tarshish, and they built the ships in Ezion-geber.
2Ch 20:37 Then Eliezer the son of Dodavahu of Mareshah prophesied against Jehoshaphat, saying, "Because
you have joined with Ahaziah, the LORD will destroy what you have made." And the ships were wrecked and
were not able to go to Tarshish.
2Ch 21:1 Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David, and Jehoramhis son reigned in his place.
2Ch 21:2 He had brothers, the sons of Jehoshaphat: Azariah, Jehiel, Zechariah, Azariah, Michael, and
Shephatiah; all these were the sons of Jehoshaphat king of Judah.
2Ch 21:3 Their father gave them great gifts of silver, gold, and valuable possessions, together with fortified
cities in Judah, but he gave the kingdom to Jehoram, because he was the firstborn.
2Ch 21:4 When Jehoram had ascended the throne of his father and was established, he killed all his brothers
with the sword, and also some of the princes of Israel.
2Ch 21:5 Jehoram was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem.
2Ch 21:6 And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as the house of Ahab had done, for the daughter of
Ahab was his wife. And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD.
2Ch 21:7 Yet the LORD was not willing to destroy the house of David, because of the covenant that he had
made with David, and since he had promised to give a lamp to him and to his sons forever.
2Ch 21:8 In his days Edom revolted from the rule of Judah and set up a king of their own.
2Ch 21:9 Then Jehoram passed over with his commanders and all his chariots, and he rose by night and struck
the Edomites who had surrounded him and his chariot commanders.
2Ch 21:10 So Edom revolted from the rule of Judah to this day. At that time Libnah also revolted from his rule,
because he had forsaken the LORD, the God of his fathers.
2Ch 21:11 Moreover, he made high places in the hill country of Judah and led the inhabitants of Jerusalem into
whoredom and made Judah go astray.
2Ch 21:12 And a letter came to him from Elijah the prophet, saying, "Thus says the LORD, the God of David
your father, 'Because you have not walked in the ways of Jehoshaphat your father, or in the ways of Asa king of
Judah,
2Ch 21:13 but have walked in the way of the kings of Israel and have enticed Judah and the inhabitants of
Jerusalem into whoredom, as the house of Ahab led Israel into whoredom, and also you have killed your
brothers, of your father's house, who were better than yourself,
2Ch 21:14 behold, the LORD will bring a great plague on your people, your children, your wives, and all your
possessions,
2Ch 21:15 and you yourself will have a severe sickness with a disease of your bowels, until your bowels come
out because of the disease, day by day.'"
2Ch 21:16 And the LORD stirred up against Jehoram the anger of the Philistines and of the Arabians who are
near the Ethiopians.
2Ch 21:17 And they came up against Judah and invaded it and carried away all the possessions they found that
belonged to the king's house, and also his sons and his wives, so that no son was left to him except Jehoahaz,
his youngest son.
2Ch 21:18 And after all this the LORD struck him in his bowels with an incurable disease.
2Ch 21:19 In course of time, at the end of two years, his bowels came out because of the disease, and he died
in great agony. His people made no fire in his honor, like the fires made for his fathers.
2Ch 21:20 He was thirty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem. And
he departed with no one's regret. They buried him in the city of David, but not in the tombs of the kings.
2Ch 22:1 And the inhabitants of Jerusalem made Ahaziah his youngest son king in his place, for the band of
men that came with the Arabians to the camp had killed all the older sons. So Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king
of Judah reigned.
2Ch 22:2 Ahaziah was twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. His
mother's name was Athaliah, the granddaughter of Omri.
2Ch 22:3 He also walked in the ways of the house of Ahab, for his mother was his counselor in doing wickedly.
2Ch 22:4 He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, as the house of Ahab had done. For after the death of
his father they were his counselors, to his undoing.
2Ch 22:5 He even followed their counsel and went with Jehoram the son of Ahab king of Israel to make war
against Hazael king of Syria at Ramoth-gilead. And the Syrians wounded Joram,
2Ch 22:6 and he returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds that he had received at Ramah, when he fought
against Hazael king of Syria. And Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see Joram the son of
Ahab in Jezreel, because he was wounded.
2Ch 22:7 But it was ordained by God that the downfall of Ahaziah should come about through his going to visit
Joram. For when he came there, he went out with Jehoram to meet Jehu the son of Nimshi, whom the LORD
had anointed to destroy the house of Ahab.
2Ch 22:8 And when Jehu was executing judgment on the house of Ahab, he met the princes of Judah and the
sons of Ahaziah's brothers, who attended Ahaziah, and he killed them.
2Ch 22:9 He searched for Ahaziah, and he was captured while hiding in Samaria, and he was brought to Jehu
and put to death. They buried him, for they said, "He is the grandson of Jehoshaphat, who sought the LORD withall his heart." And the house of Ahaziah had no one able to rule the kingdom.
2Ch 22:10 Now when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all
the royal family of the house of Judah.
2Ch 22:11 But Jehoshabeath, the daughter of the king, took Joash the son of Ahaziah and stole him away from
among the king's sons who were about to be put to death, and she put him and his nurse in a bedroom. Thus
Jehoshabeath, the daughter of King Jehoram and wife of Jehoiada the priest, because she was a sister of
Ahaziah, hid him from Athaliah, so that she did not put him to death.
2Ch 22:12 And he remained with them six years, hidden in the house of God, while Athaliah reigned over the
land.
2Ch 23:1 But in the seventh year Jehoiada took courage and entered into a covenant with the commanders of
hundreds, Azariah the son of Jeroham, Ishmael the son of Jehohanan, Azariah the son of Obed, Maaseiah the
son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri.
2Ch 23:2 And they went about through Judah and gathered the Levites from all the cities of Judah, and the
heads of fathers' houses of Israel, and they came to Jerusalem.
2Ch 23:3 And all the assembly made a covenant with the king in the house of God. And Jehoiada said to them,
"Behold, the king's son! Let him reign, as the LORD spoke concerning the sons of David.
2Ch 23:4 This is the thing that you shall do: of you priests and Levites who come off duty on the Sabbath, one
third shall be gatekeepers,
2Ch 23:5 and one third shall be at the king's house and one third at the Gate of the Foundation. And all the
people shall be in the courts of the house of the LORD.
2Ch 23:6 Let no one enter the house of the LORD except the priests and ministering Levites. They may enter,
for they are holy, but all the people shall keep the charge of the LORD.
2Ch 23:7 The Levites shall surround the king, each with his weapons in his hand. And whoever enters the
house shall be put to death. Be with the king when he comes in and when he goes out."
2Ch 23:8 The Levites and all Judah did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded, and they each
brought his men, who were to go off duty on the Sabbath, with those who were to come on duty on the Sabbath,
for Jehoiada the priest did not dismiss the divisions.
2Ch 23:9 And Jehoiada the priest gave to the captains the spears and the large and small shields that had been
King David's, which were in the house of God.
2Ch 23:10 And he set all the people as a guard for the king, every man with his weapon in his hand, from the
south side of the house to the north side of the house, around the altar and the house.
2Ch 23:11 Then they brought out the king's son and put the crown on him and gave him the testimony. And they
proclaimed him king, and Jehoiada and his sons anointed him, and they said, "Long live the king."
2Ch 23:12 When Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and praising the king, she went into the house
of the LORD to the people.
2Ch 23:13 And when she looked, there was the king standing by his pillar at the entrance, and the captains and
the trumpeters beside the king, and all the people of the land rejoicing and blowing trumpets, and the singers
with their musical instruments leading in the celebration. And Athaliah tore her clothes and cried, "Treason!
Treason!"
2Ch 23:14 Then Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains who were set over the army, saying to them,
"Bring her out between the ranks, and anyone who follows her is to be put to death with the sword." For the
priest said, "Do not put her to death in the house of the LORD."
2Ch 23:15 So they laid hands on her, and she went into the entrance of the horse gate of the king's house, and
they put her to death there.
2Ch 23:16 And Jehoiada made a covenant between himself and all the people and the king that they should be
the LORD's people.
2Ch 23:17 Then all the people went to the house of Baal and tore it down; his altars and his images they broke
in pieces, and they killed Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars.
2Ch 23:18 And Jehoiada posted watchmen for the house of the LORD under the direction of the Levitical priests
and the Levites whom David had organized to be in charge of the house of the LORD, to offer burnt offerings to
the LORD, as it is written in the Law of Moses, with rejoicing and with singing, according to the order of David.
2Ch 23:19 He stationed the gatekeepers at the gates of the house of the LORD so that no one should enter who
was in any way unclean.
2Ch 23:20 And he took the captains, the nobles, the governors of the people, and all the people of the land, and
they brought the king down from the house of the LORD, marching through the upper gate to the king's house.
And they set the king on the royal throne.
2Ch 23:21 So all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet after Athaliah had been put to death with
the sword.
2Ch 24:1 Joash was seven years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. Hismother's name was Zibiah of Beer-sheba.
2Ch 24:2 And Joash did what was right in the eyes of the LORD all the days of Jehoiada the priest.
2Ch 24:3 Jehoiada got for him two wives, and he had sons and daughters.
2Ch 24:4 After this Joash decided to restore the house of the LORD.
2Ch 24:5 And he gathered the priests and the Levites and said to them, "Go out to the cities of Judah and
gather from all Israel money to repair the house of your God from year to year, and see that you act quickly." But
the Levites did not act quickly.
2Ch 24:6 So the king summoned Jehoiada the chief and said to him, "Why have you not required the Levites to
bring in from Judah and Jerusalem the tax levied by Moses, the servant of the LORD, and the congregation of
Israel for the tent of testimony?"
2Ch 24:7 For the sons of Athaliah, that wicked woman, had broken into the house of God, and had also used all
the dedicated things of the house of the LORD for the Baals.
2Ch 24:8 So the king commanded, and they made a chest and set it outside the gate of the house of the LORD.
2Ch 24:9 And proclamation was made throughout Judah and Jerusalem to bring in for the LORD the tax that
Moses the servant of God laid on Israel in the wilderness.
2Ch 24:10 And all the princes and all the people rejoiced and brought their tax and dropped it into the chest until
they had finished.
2Ch 24:11 And whenever the chest was brought to the king's officers by the Levites, when they saw that there
was much money in it, the king's secretary and the officer of the chief priest would come and empty the chest
and take it and return it to its place. Thus they did day after day, and collected money in abundance.
2Ch 24:12 And the king and Jehoiada gave it to those who had charge of the work of the house of the LORD,
and they hired masons and carpenters to restore the house of the LORD, and also workers in iron and bronze to
repair the house of the LORD.
2Ch 24:13 So those who were engaged in the work labored, and the repairing went forward in their hands, and
they restored the house of God to its proper condition and strengthened it.
2Ch 24:14 And when they had finished, they brought the rest of the money before the king and Jehoiada, and
with it were made utensils for the house of the LORD, both for the service and for the burnt offerings, and dishes
for incense and vessels of gold and silver. And they offered burnt offerings in the house of the LORD regularly all
the days of Jehoiada.
2Ch 24:15 But Jehoiada grew old and full of days, and died. He was 130 years old at his death.
2Ch 24:16 And they buried him in the city of David among the kings, because he had done good in Israel, and
toward God and his house.
2Ch 24:17 Now after the death of Jehoiada the princes of Judah came and paid homage to the king. Then the
king listened to them.
2Ch 24:18 And they abandoned the house of the LORD, the God of their fathers, and served the Asherim and
the idols. And wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for this guilt of theirs.
2Ch 24:19 Yet he sent prophets among them to bring them back to the LORD. These testified against them, but
they would not pay attention.
2Ch 24:20 Then the Spirit of God clothed Zechariah the son of Jehoiada the priest, and he stood above the
people, and said to them, "Thus says God, 'Why do you break the commandments of the LORD, so that you
cannot prosper? Because you have forsaken the LORD, he has forsaken you.'"
2Ch 24:21 But they conspired against him, and by command of the king they stoned him with stones in the court
of the house of the LORD.
2Ch 24:22 Thus Joash the king did not remember the kindness that Jehoiada, Zechariah's father, had shown
him, but killed his son. And when he was dying, he said, "May the LORD see and avenge!"
2Ch 24:23 At the end of the year the army of the Syrians came up against Joash. They came to Judah and
Jerusalem and destroyed all the princes of the people from among the people and sent all their spoil to the king
of Damascus.
2Ch 24:24 Though the army of the Syrians had come with few men, the LORD delivered into their hand a very
great army, because Judah had forsaken the LORD, the God of their fathers. Thus they executed judgment on
Joash.
2Ch 24:25 When they had departed from him, leaving him severely wounded, his servants conspired against
him because of the blood of the son of Jehoiada the priest, and killed him on his bed. So he died, and they
buried him in the city of David, but they did not bury him in the tombs of the kings.
2Ch 24:26 Those who conspired against him were Zabad the son of Shimeath the Ammonite, and Jehozabad
the son of Shimrith the Moabite.
2Ch 24:27 Accounts of his sons and of the many oracles against him and of the rebuilding of the house of God
are written in the Story of the Book of the Kings. And Amaziah his son reigned in his place.
2Ch 25:1 Amaziah was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-nine years inJerusalem. His mother's name was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.
2Ch 25:2 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, yet not with a whole heart.
2Ch 25:3 And as soon as the royal power was firmly his, he killed his servants who had struck down the king his
father.
2Ch 25:4 But he did not put their children to death, according to what is written in the Law, in the Book of
Moses, where the LORD commanded, "Fathers shall not die because of their children, nor children die because
of their fathers, but each one shall die for his own sin."
2Ch 25:5 Then Amaziah assembled the men of Judah and set them by fathers' houses under commanders of
thousands and of hundreds for all Judah and Benjamin. He mustered those twenty years old and upward, and
found that they were 300,000 choice men, fit for war, able to handle spear and shield.
2Ch 25:6 He hired also 100,000 mighty men of valor from Israel for 100 talents of silver.
2Ch 25:7 But a man of God came to him and said, "O king, do not let the army of Israel go with you, for the
LORD is not with Israel, with all these Ephraimites.
2Ch 25:8 But go, act, be strong for the battle. Why should you suppose that God will cast you down before the
enemy? For God has power to help or to cast down."
2Ch 25:9 And Amaziah said to the man of God, "But what shall we do about the hundred talents that I have
given to the army of Israel?" The man of God answered, "The LORD is able to give you much more than this."
2Ch 25:10 Then Amaziah discharged the army that had come to him from Ephraim to go home again. And they
became very angry with Judah and returned home in fierce anger.
2Ch 25:11 But Amaziah took courage and led out his people and went to the Valley of Salt and struck down
10,000 men of Seir.
2Ch 25:12 The men of Judah captured another 10,000 alive and took them to the top of a rock and threw them
down from the top of the rock, and they were all dashed to pieces.
2Ch 25:13 But the men of the army whom Amaziah sent back, not letting them go with him to battle, raided the
cities of Judah, from Samaria to Beth-horon, and struck down 3,000 people in them and took much spoil.
2Ch 25:14 After Amaziah came from striking down the Edomites, he brought the gods of the men of Seir and set
them up as his gods and worshiped them, making offerings to them.
2Ch 25:15 Therefore the LORD was angry with Amaziah and sent to him a prophet, who said to him, "Why have
you sought the gods of a people who did not deliver their own people from your hand?"
2Ch 25:16 But as he was speaking, the king said to him, "Have we made you a royal counselor? Stop! Why
should you be struck down?" So the prophet stopped, but said, "I know that God has determined to destroy you,
because you have done this and have not listened to my counsel."
2Ch 25:17 Then Amaziah king of Judah took counsel and sent to Joash the son of Jehoahaz, son of Jehu, king
of Israel, saying, "Come, let us look one another in the face."
2Ch 25:18 And Joash the king of Israel sent word to Amaziah king of Judah, "A thistle on Lebanon sent to a
cedar on Lebanon, saying, 'Give your daughter to my son for a wife,' and a wild beast of Lebanon passed by and
trampled down the thistle.
2Ch 25:19 You say, 'See, I have struck down Edom,' and your heart has lifted you up in boastfulness. But now
stay at home. Why should you provoke trouble so that you fall, you and Judah with you?"
2Ch 25:20 But Amaziah would not listen, for it was of God, in order that he might give them into the hand of their
enemies, because they had sought the gods of Edom.
2Ch 25:21 So Joash king of Israel went up, and he and Amaziah king of Judah faced one another in battle at
Beth-shemesh, which belongs to Judah.
2Ch 25:22 And Judah was defeated by Israel, and every man fled to his home.
2Ch 25:23 And Joash king of Israel captured Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Joash, son of Ahaziah, at Bethshemesh, and brought him to Jerusalem and broke down the wall of Jerusalem for 400 cubits, from the Ephraim
Gate to the Corner Gate.
2Ch 25:24 And he seized all the gold and silver, and all the vessels that were found in the house of God, in the
care of Obed-edom. He seized also the treasuries of the king's house, also hostages, and he returned to
Samaria.
2Ch 25:25 Amaziah the son of Joash, king of Judah, lived fifteen years after the death of Joash the son of
Jehoahaz, king of Israel.
2Ch 25:26 Now the rest of the deeds of Amaziah, from first to last, are they not written in the Book of the Kings
of Judah and Israel?
2Ch 25:27 From the time when he turned away from the LORD they made a conspiracy against him in
Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish. But they sent after him to Lachish and put him to death there.
2Ch 25:28 And they brought him upon horses, and he was buried with his fathers in the city of David.
2Ch 26:1 And all the people of Judah took Uzziah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king instead of his
father Amaziah.2Ch 26:2 He built Eloth and restored it to Judah, after the king slept with his fathers.
2Ch 26:3 Uzziah was sixteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem. His
mother's name was Jecoliah of Jerusalem.
2Ch 26:4 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, according to all that his father Amaziah had done.
2Ch 26:5 He set himself to seek God in the days of Zechariah, who instructed him in the fear of God, and as
long as he sought the LORD, God made him prosper.
2Ch 26:6 He went out and made war against the Philistines and broke through the wall of Gath and the wall of
Jabneh and the wall of Ashdod, and he built cities in the territory of Ashdod and elsewhere among the
Philistines.
2Ch 26:7 God helped him against the Philistines and against the Arabians who lived in Gurbaal and against the
Meunites.
2Ch 26:8 The Ammonites paid tribute to Uzziah, and his fame spread even to the border of Egypt, for he
became very strong.
2Ch 26:9 Moreover, Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the Corner Gate and at the Valley Gate and at the
Angle, and fortified them.
2Ch 26:10 And he built towers in the wilderness and cut out many cisterns, for he had large herds, both in the
Shephelah and in the plain, and he had farmers and vinedressers in the hills and in the fertile lands, for he loved
the soil.
2Ch 26:11 Moreover, Uzziah had an army of soldiers, fit for war, in divisions according to the numbers in the
muster made by Jeiel the secretary and Maaseiah the officer, under the direction of Hananiah, one of the king's
commanders.
2Ch 26:12 The whole number of the heads of fathers' houses of mighty men of valor was 2,600.
2Ch 26:13 Under their command was an army of 307,500, who could make war with mighty power, to help the
king against the enemy.
2Ch 26:14 And Uzziah prepared for all the army shields, spears, helmets, coats of mail, bows, and stones for
slinging.
2Ch 26:15 In Jerusalem he made engines, invented by skillful men, to be on the towers and the corners, to
shoot arrows and great stones. And his fame spread far, for he was marvelously helped, till he was strong.
2Ch 26:16 But when he was strong, he grew proud, to his destruction. For he was unfaithful to the LORD his
God and entered the temple of the LORD to burn incense on the altar of incense.
2Ch 26:17 But Azariah the priest went in after him, with eighty priests of the LORD who were men of valor,
2Ch 26:18 and they withstood King Uzziah and said to him, "It is not for you, Uzziah, to burn incense to the
LORD, but for the priests the sons of Aaron, who are consecrated to burn incense. Go out of the sanctuary, for
you have done wrong, and it will bring you no honor from the LORD God."
2Ch 26:19 Then Uzziah was angry. Now he had a censer in his hand to burn incense, and when he became
angry with the priests, leprosy broke out on his forehead in the presence of the priests in the house of the LORD,
by the altar of incense.
2Ch 26:20 And Azariah the chief priest and all the priests looked at him, and behold, he was leprous in his
forehead! And they rushed him out quickly, and he himself hurried to go out, because the LORD had struck him.
2Ch 26:21 And King Uzziah was a leper to the day of his death, and being a leper lived in a separate house, for
he was excluded from the house of the LORD. And Jotham his son was over the king's household, governing the
people of the land.
2Ch 26:22 Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, from first to last, Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz wrote.
2Ch 26:23 And Uzziah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the burial field that belonged
to the kings, for they said, "He is a leper." And Jotham his son reigned in his place.
2Ch 27:1 Jotham was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem.
His mother's name was Jerushah the daughter of Zadok.
2Ch 27:2 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD according to all that his father Uzziah had done,
except he did not enter the temple of the LORD. But the people still followed corrupt practices.
2Ch 27:3 He built the upper gate of the house of the LORD and did much building on the wall of Ophel.
2Ch 27:4 Moreover, he built cities in the hill country of Judah, and forts and towers on the wooded hills.
2Ch 27:5 He fought with the king of the Ammonites and prevailed against them. And the Ammonites gave him
that year 100 talents of silver, and 10,000 cors of wheat and 10,000 of barley. The Ammonites paid him the
same amount in the second and the third years.
2Ch 27:6 So Jotham became mighty, because he ordered his ways before the LORD his God.
2Ch 27:7 Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all his wars and his ways, behold, they are written in the Book
of the Kings of Israel and Judah.
2Ch 27:8 He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem.
2Ch 27:9 And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David, and Ahaz his son reignedin his place.
2Ch 28:1 Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And
he did not do what was right in the eyes of the LORD, as his father David had done,
2Ch 28:2 but he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel. He even made metal images for the Baals,
2Ch 28:3 and he made offerings in the Valley of the Son of Hinnom and burned his sons as an offering,
according to the abominations of the nations whom the LORD drove out before the people of Israel.
2Ch 28:4 And he sacrificed and made offerings on the high places and on the hills and under every green tree.
2Ch 28:5 Therefore the LORD his God gave him into the hand of the king of Syria, who defeated him and took
captive a great number of his people and brought them to Damascus. He was also given into the hand of the
king of Israel, who struck him with great force.
2Ch 28:6 For Pekah the son of Remaliah killed 120,000 from Judah in one day, all of them men of valor,
because they had forsaken the LORD, the God of their fathers.
2Ch 28:7 And Zichri, a mighty man of Ephraim, killed Maaseiah the king's son and Azrikam the commander of
the palace and Elkanah the next in authority to the king.
2Ch 28:8 The men of Israel took captive 200,000 of their relatives, women, sons, and daughters. They also took
much spoil from them and brought the spoil to Samaria.
2Ch 28:9 But a prophet of the LORD was there, whose name was Oded, and he went out to meet the army that
came to Samaria and said to them, "Behold, because the LORD, the God of your fathers, was angry with Judah,
he gave them into your hand, but you have killed them in a rage that has reached up to heaven.
2Ch 28:10 And now you intend to subjugate the people of Judah and Jerusalem, male and female, as your
slaves. Have you not sins of your own against the LORD your God?
2Ch 28:11 Now hear me, and send back the captives from your relatives whom you have taken, for the fierce
wrath of the LORD is upon you."
2Ch 28:12 Certain chiefs also of the men of Ephraim, Azariah the son of Johanan, Berechiah the son of
Meshillemoth, Jehizkiah the son of Shallum, and Amasa the son of Hadlai, stood up against those who were
coming from the war
2Ch 28:13 and said to them, "You shall not bring the captives in here, for you propose to bring upon us guilt
against the LORD in addition to our present sins and guilt. For our guilt is already great, and there is fierce wrath
against Israel."
2Ch 28:14 So the armed men left the captives and the spoil before the princes and all the assembly.
2Ch 28:15 And the men who have been mentioned by name rose and took the captives, and with the spoil they
clothed all who were naked among them. They clothed them, gave them sandals, provided them with food and
drink, and anointed them, and carrying all the feeble among them on donkeys, they brought them to their kinsfolk
at Jericho, the city of palm trees. Then they returned to Samaria.
2Ch 28:16 At that time King Ahaz sent to the king of Assyria for help.
2Ch 28:17 For the Edomites had again invaded and defeated Judah and carried away captives.
2Ch 28:18 And the Philistines had made raids on the cities in the Shephelah and the Negeb of Judah, and had
taken Beth-shemesh, Aijalon, Gederoth, Soco with its villages, Timnah with its villages, and Gimzo with its
villages. And they settled there.
2Ch 28:19 For the LORD humbled Judah because of Ahaz king of Israel, for he had made Judah act sinfully
and had been very unfaithful to the LORD.
2Ch 28:20 So Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria came against him and afflicted him instead of strengthening him.
2Ch 28:21 For Ahaz took a portion from the house of the LORD and the house of the king and of the princes,
and gave tribute to the king of Assyria, but it did not help him.
2Ch 28:22 In the time of his distress he became yet more faithless to the LORD- this same King Ahaz.
2Ch 28:23 For he sacrificed to the gods of Damascus that had defeated him and said, "Because the gods of the
kings of Syria helped them, I will sacrifice to them that they may help me." But they were the ruin of him and of
all Israel.
2Ch 28:24 And Ahaz gathered together the vessels of the house of God and cut in pieces the vessels of the
house of God, and he shut up the doors of the house of the LORD, and he made himself altars in every corner of
Jerusalem.
2Ch 28:25 In every city of Judah he made high places to make offerings to other gods, provoking to anger the
LORD, the God of his fathers.
2Ch 28:26 Now the rest of his acts and all his ways, from first to last, behold, they are written in the Book of the
Kings of Judah and Israel.
2Ch 28:27 And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city, in Jerusalem, for they did not bring
him into the tombs of the kings of Israel. And Hezekiah his son reigned in his place.
2Ch 29:1 Hezekiah began to reign when he was twenty-five years old, and he reigned twenty-nine years in
Jerusalem. His mother's name was Abijah the daughter of Zechariah.2Ch 29:2 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, according to all that David his father had done.
2Ch 29:3 In the first year of his reign, in the first month, he opened the doors of the house of the LORD and
repaired them.
2Ch 29:4 He brought in the priests and the Levites and assembled them in the square on the east
2Ch 29:5 and said to them, "Hear me, Levites! Now consecrate yourselves, and consecrate the house of the
LORD, the God of your fathers, and carry out the filth from the Holy Place.
2Ch 29:6 For our fathers have been unfaithful and have done what was evil in the sight of the LORD our God.
They have forsaken him and have turned away their faces from the habitation of the LORD and turned their
backs.
2Ch 29:7 They also shut the doors of the vestibule and put out the lamps and have not burned incense or
offered burnt offerings in the Holy Place to the God of Israel.
2Ch 29:8 Therefore the wrath of the LORD came on Judah and Jerusalem, and he has made them an object of
horror, of astonishment, and of hissing, as you see with your own eyes.
2Ch 29:9 For behold, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons and our daughters and our wives are in
captivity for this.
2Ch 29:10 Now it is in my heart to make a covenant with the LORD, the God of Israel, in order that his fierce
anger may turn away from us.
2Ch 29:11 My sons, do not now be negligent, for the LORD has chosen you to stand in his presence, to minister
to him and to be his ministers and make offerings to him."
2Ch 29:12 Then the Levites arose, Mahath the son of Amasai, and Joel the son of Azariah, of the sons of the
Ko-hathites; and of the sons of Merari, Kish the son of Abdi, and Azariah the son of Jehallelel; and of the
Gershonites, Joah the son of Zimmah, and Eden the son of Joah;
2Ch 29:13 and of the sons of Elizaphan, Shimri and Jeuel; and of the sons of Asaph, Zechariah and Mattaniah;
2Ch 29:14 and of the sons of Heman, Jehuel and Shimei; and of the sons of Jeduthun, Shemaiah and Uzziel.
2Ch 29:15 They gathered their brothers and consecrated themselves and went in as the king had commanded,
by the words of the LORD, to cleanse the house of the LORD.
2Ch 29:16 The priests went into the inner part of the house of the LORD to cleanse it, and they brought out all
the uncleanness that they found in the temple of the LORD into the court of the house of the LORD. And the
Levites took it and carried it out to the brook Kidron.
2Ch 29:17 They began to consecrate on the first day of the first month, and on the eighth day of the month they
came to the vestibule of the LORD. Then for eight days they consecrated the house of the LORD, and on the
sixteenth day of the first month they finished.
2Ch 29:18 Then they went in to Hezekiah the king and said, "We have cleansed all the house of the LORD, the
altar of burnt offering and all its utensils, and the table for the showbread and all its utensils.
2Ch 29:19 All the utensils that King Ahaz discarded in his reign when he was faithless, we have made ready
and consecrated, and behold, they are before the altar of the LORD."
2Ch 29:20 Then Hezekiah the king rose early and gathered the officials of the city and went up to the house of
the LORD.
2Ch 29:21 And they brought seven bulls, seven rams, seven lambs, and seven male goats for a sin offering for
the kingdom and for the sanctuary and for Judah. And he commanded the priests the sons of Aaron to offer
them on the altar of the LORD.
2Ch 29:22 So they slaughtered the bulls, and the priests received the blood and threw it against the altar. And
they slaughtered the rams and their blood was thrown against the altar. And they slaughtered the lambs and
their blood was thrown against the altar.
2Ch 29:23 Then the goats for the sin offering were brought to the king and the assembly, and they laid their
hands on them,
2Ch 29:24 and the priests slaughtered them and made a sin offering with their blood on the altar, to make
atonement for all Israel. For the king commanded that the burnt offering and the sin offering should be made for
all Israel.
2Ch 29:25 And he stationed the Levites in the house of the LORD with cymbals, harps, and lyres, according to
the commandment of David and of Gad the king's seer and of Nathan the prophet, for the commandment was
from the LORD through his prophets.
2Ch 29:26 The Levites stood with the instruments of David, and the priests with the trumpets.
2Ch 29:27 Then Hezekiah commanded that the burnt offering be offered on the altar. And when the burnt
offering began, the song to the LORD began also, and the trumpets, accompanied by the instruments of David
king of Israel.
2Ch 29:28 The whole assembly worshiped, and the singers sang and the trumpeters sounded. All this continued
until the burnt offering was finished.
2Ch 29:29 When the offering was finished, the king and all who were present with him bowed themselves andworshiped.
2Ch 29:30 And Hezekiah the king and the officials commanded the Levites to sing praises to the LORD with the
words of David and of Asaph the seer. And they sang praises with gladness, and they bowed down and
worshiped.
2Ch 29:31 Then Hezekiah said, "You have now consecrated yourselves to the LORD. Come near; bring
sacrifices and thank offerings to the house of the LORD." And the assembly brought sacrifices and thank
offerings, and all who were of a willing heart brought burnt offerings.
2Ch 29:32 The number of the burnt offerings that the assembly brought was 70 bulls, 100 rams, and 200 lambs;
all these were for a burnt offering to the LORD.
2Ch 29:33 And the consecrated offerings were 600 bulls and 3,000 sheep.
2Ch 29:34 But the priests were too few and could not flay all the burnt offerings, so until other priests had
consecrated themselves, their brothers the Levites helped them, until the work was finished- for the Levites were
more upright in heart than the priests in consecrating themselves.
2Ch 29:35 Besides the great number of burnt offerings, there was the fat of the peace offerings, and there were
the drink offerings for the burnt offerings. Thus the service of the house of the LORD was restored.
2Ch 29:36 And Hezekiah and all the people rejoiced because God had prepared for the people, for the thing
came about suddenly.
2Ch 30:1 Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah, and wrote letters also to Ephraim and Manasseh, that they
should come to the house of the LORD at Jerusalem to keep the Passover to the LORD, the God of Israel.
2Ch 30:2 For the king and his princes and all the assembly in Jerusalem had taken counsel to keep the
Passover in the second month-
2Ch 30:3 for they could not keep it at that time because the priests had not consecrated themselves in sufficient
number, nor had the people assembled in Jerusalem-
2Ch 30:4 and the plan seemed right to the king and all the assembly.
2Ch 30:5 So they decreed to make a proclamation throughout all Israel, from Beer-sheba to Dan, that the
people should come and keep the Passover to the LORD, the God of Israel, at Jerusalem, for they had not kept
it as often as prescribed.
2Ch 30:6 So couriers went throughout all Israel and Judah with letters from the king and his princes, as the king
had commanded, saying, "O people of Israel, return to the LORD, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, that he
may turn again to the remnant of you who have escaped from the hand of the kings of Assyria.
2Ch 30:7 Do not be like your fathers and your brothers, who were faithless to the LORD God of their fathers, so
that he made them a desolation, as you see.
2Ch 30:8 Do not now be stiff-necked as your fathers were, but yield yourselves to the LORD and come to his
sanctuary, which he has consecrated forever, and serve the LORD your God, that his fierce anger may turn
away from you.
2Ch 30:9 For if you return to the LORD, your brothers and your children will find compassion with their captors
and return to this land. For the LORD your God is gracious and merciful and will not turn away his face from you,
if you return to him."
2Ch 30:10 So the couriers went from city to city through the country of Ephraim and Manasseh, and as far as
Zebulun, but they laughed them to scorn and mocked them.
2Ch 30:11 However, some men of Asher, of Manasseh, and of Zebulun humbled themselves and came to
Jerusalem.
2Ch 30:12 The hand of God was also on Judah to give them one heart to do what the king and the princes
commanded by the word of the LORD.
2Ch 30:13 And many people came together in Jerusalem to keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread in the second
month, a very great assembly.
2Ch 30:14 They set to work and removed the altars that were in Jerusalem, and all the altars for burning
incense they took away and threw into the Kidron valley.
2Ch 30:15 And they slaughtered the Passover lamb on the fourteenth day of the second month. And the priests
and the Levites were ashamed, so that they consecrated themselves and brought burnt offerings into the house
of the LORD.
2Ch 30:16 They took their accustomed posts according to the Law of Moses the man of God. The priests threw
the blood that they received from the hand of the Levites.
2Ch 30:17 For there were many in the assembly who had not consecrated themselves. Therefore the Levites
had to slaughter the Passover lamb for everyone who was not clean, to consecrate it to the LORD.
2Ch 30:18 For a majority of the people, many of them from Ephraim, Manasseh, Issachar, and Zebulun, had not
cleansed themselves, yet they ate the Passover otherwise than as prescribed. For Hezekiah had prayed for
them, saying, "May the good LORD pardon everyone
2Ch 30:19 who sets his heart to seek God, the LORD, the God of his fathers, even though not according to thesanctuary's rules of cleanness."
2Ch 30:20 And the LORD heard Hezekiah and healed the people.
2Ch 30:21 And the people of Israel who were present at Jerusalem kept the Feast of Unleavened Bread seven
days with great gladness, and the Levites and the priests praised the LORD day by day, singing with all their
might to the LORD.
2Ch 30:22 And Hezekiah spoke encouragingly to all the Levites who showed good skill in the service of the
LORD. So they ate the food of the festival for seven days, sacrificing peace offerings and giving thanks to the
LORD, the God of their fathers.
2Ch 30:23 Then the whole assembly agreed together to keep the feast for another seven days. So they kept it
for another seven days with gladness.
2Ch 30:24 For Hezekiah king of Judah gave the assembly 1,000 bulls and 7,000 sheep for offerings, and the
princes gave the assembly 1,000 bulls and 10,000 sheep. And the priests consecrated themselves in great
numbers.
2Ch 30:25 The whole assembly of Judah, and the priests and the Levites, and the whole assembly that came
out of Israel, and the sojourners who came out of the land of Israel, and the sojourners who lived in Judah,
rejoiced.
2Ch 30:26 So there was great joy in Jerusalem, for since the time of Solomon the son of David king of Israel
there had been nothing like this in Jerusalem.
2Ch 30:27 Then the priests and the Levites arose and blessed the people, and their voice was heard, and their
prayer came to his holy habitation in heaven.
2Ch 31:1 Now when all this was finished, all Israel who were present went out to the cities of Judah and broke
in pieces the pillars and cut down the Asherim and broke down the high places and the altars throughout all
Judah and Benjamin, and in Ephraim and Manasseh, until they had destroyed them all. Then all the people of
Israel returned to their cities, every man to his possession.
2Ch 31:2 And Hezekiah appointed the divisions of the priests and of the Levites, division by division, each
according to his service, the priests and the Levites, for burnt offerings and peace offerings, to minister in the
gates of the camp of the LORD and to give thanks and praise.
2Ch 31:3 The contribution of the king from his own possessions was for the burnt offerings: the burnt offerings
of morning and evening, and the burnt offerings for the Sabbaths, the new moons, and the appointed feasts, as it
is written in the Law of the LORD.
2Ch 31:4 And he commanded the people who lived in Jerusalem to give the portion due to the priests and the
Levites, that they might give themselves to the Law of the LORD.
2Ch 31:5 As soon as the command was spread abroad, the people of Israel gave in abundance the firstfruits of
grain, wine, oil, honey, and of all the produce of the field. And they brought in abundantly the tithe of everything.
2Ch 31:6 And the people of Israel and Judah who lived in the cities of Judah also brought in the tithe of cattle
and sheep, and the tithe of the dedicated things that had been dedicated to the LORD their God, and laid them
in heaps.
2Ch 31:7 In the third month they began to pile up the heaps, and finished them in the seventh month.
2Ch 31:8 When Hezekiah and the princes came and saw the heaps, they blessed the LORD and his people
Israel.
2Ch 31:9 And Hezekiah questioned the priests and the Levites about the heaps.
2Ch 31:10 Azariah the chief priest, who was of the house of Zadok, answered him, "Since they began to bring
the contributions into the house of the LORD, we have eaten and had enough and have plenty left, for the LORD
has blessed his people, so that we have this large amount left."
2Ch 31:11 Then Hezekiah commanded them to prepare chambers in the house of the LORD, and they
prepared them.
2Ch 31:12 And they faithfully brought in the contributions, the tithes, and the dedicated things. The chief officer
in charge of them was Conaniah the Levite, with Shimei his brother as second,
2Ch 31:13 while Jehiel, Azaziah, Nahath, Asahel, Jerimoth, Jozabad, Eliel, Ismachiah, Mahath, and Benaiah
were overseers assisting Conaniah and Shimei his brother, by the appointment of Hezekiah the king and Azariah
the chief officer of the house of God.
2Ch 31:14 And Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, keeper of the east gate, was over the freewill offerings to God,
to apportion the contribution reserved for the LORD and the most holy offerings.
2Ch 31:15 Eden, Miniamin, Jeshua, Shemaiah, Amariah, and Shecaniah were faithfully assisting him in the
cities of the priests, to distribute the portions to their brothers, old and young alike, by divisions,
2Ch 31:16 except those enrolled by genealogy, males from three years old and upwards- all who entered the
house of the LORD as the duty of each day required- for their service according to their offices, by their
divisions.
2Ch 31:17 The enrollment of the priests was according to their fathers' houses; that of the Levites from twentyyears old and upwards was according to their offices, by their divisions.
2Ch 31:18 They were enrolled with all their little children, their wives, their sons, and their daughters, the whole
assembly, for they were faithful in keeping themselves holy.
2Ch 31:19 And for the sons of Aaron, the priests, who were in the fields of common land belonging to their
cities, there were men in the several cities who were designated by name to distribute portions to every male
among the priests and to everyone among the Levites who was enrolled.
2Ch 31:20 Thus Hezekiah did throughout all Judah, and he did what was good and right and faithful before the
LORD his God.
2Ch 31:21 And every work that he undertook in the service of the house of God and in accordance with the law
and the commandments, seeking his God, he did with all his heart, and prospered.
2Ch 32:1 After these things and these acts of faithfulness, Sennacherib king of Assyria came and invaded
Judah and encamped against the fortified cities, thinking to win them for himself.
2Ch 32:2 And when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib had come and intended to fight against Jerusalem,
2Ch 32:3 he planned with his officers and his mighty men to stop the water of the springs that were outside the
city; and they helped him.
2Ch 32:4 A great many people were gathered, and they stopped all the springs and the brook that flowed
through the land, saying, "Why should the kings of Assyria come and find much water?"
2Ch 32:5 He set to work resolutely and built up all the wall that was broken down and raised towers upon it, and
outside it he built another wall, and he strengthened the Millo in the city of David. He also made weapons and
shields in abundance.
2Ch 32:6 And he set combat commanders over the people and gathered them together to him in the square at
the gate of the city and spoke encouragingly to them, saying,
2Ch 32:7 "Be strong and courageous. Do not be afraid or dismayed before the king of Assyria and all the horde
that is with him, for there are more with us than with him.
2Ch 32:8 With him is an arm of flesh, but with us is the LORD our God, to help us and to fight our battles." And
the people took confidence from the words of Hezekiah king of Judah.
2Ch 32:9 After this, Sennacherib, king of Assyria, who was besieging Lachish with all his forces, sent his
servants to Jerusalem to Hezekiah king of Judah and to all the people of Judah who were in Jerusalem, saying,
2Ch 32:10 "Thus says Sennacherib king of Assyria, 'On what are you trusting, that you endure the siege in
Jerusalem?
2Ch 32:11 Is not Hezekiah misleading you, that he may give you over to die by famine and by thirst, when he
tells you, "The LORD our God will deliver us from the hand of the king of Assyria"?
2Ch 32:12 Has not this same Hezekiah taken away his high places and his altars and commanded Judah and
Jerusalem, "Before one altar you shall worship, and on it you shall burn your sacrifices"?
2Ch 32:13 Do you not know what I and my fathers have done to all the peoples of other lands? Were the gods
of the nations of those lands at all able to deliver their lands out of my hand?
2Ch 32:14 Who among all the gods of those nations that my fathers devoted to destruction was able to deliver
his people from my hand, that your God should be able to deliver you from my hand?
2Ch 32:15 Now, therefore, do not let Hezekiah deceive you or mislead you in this fashion, and do not believe
him, for no god of any nation or kingdom has been able to deliver his people from my hand or from the hand of
my fathers. How much less will your God deliver you out of my hand!'"
2Ch 32:16 And his servants said still more against the Lord GOD and against his servant Hezekiah.
2Ch 32:17 And he wrote letters to cast contempt on the LORD, the God of Israel and to speak against him,
saying, "Like the gods of the nations of the lands who have not delivered their people from my hands, so the
God of Hezekiah will not deliver his people from my hand."
2Ch 32:18 And they shouted it with a loud voice in the language of Judah to the people of Jerusalem who were
on the wall, to frighten and terrify them, in order that they might take the city.
2Ch 32:19 And they spoke of the God of Jerusalem as they spoke of the gods of the peoples of the earth, which
are the work of men's hands.
2Ch 32:20 Then Hezekiah the king and Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, prayed because of this and cried to
heaven.
2Ch 32:21 And the LORD sent an angel, who cut off all the mighty warriors and commanders and officers in the
camp of the king of Assyria. So he returned with shame of face to his own land. And when he came into the
house of his god, some of his own sons struck him down there with the sword.
2Ch 32:22 So the LORD saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib king
of Assyria and from the hand of all his enemies, and he provided for them on every side.
2Ch 32:23 And many brought gifts to the LORD to Jerusalem and precious things to Hezekiah king of Judah, so
that he was exalted in the sight of all nations from that time onward.
2Ch 32:24 In those days Hezekiah became sick and was at the point of death, and he prayed to the LORD, andhe answered him and gave him a sign.
2Ch 32:25 But Hezekiah did not make return according to the benefit done to him, for his heart was proud.
Therefore wrath came upon him and Judah and Jerusalem.
2Ch 32:26 But Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of his heart, both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so
that the wrath of the LORD did not come upon them in the days of Hezekiah.
2Ch 32:27 And Hezekiah had very great riches and honor, and he made for himself treasuries for silver, for
gold, for precious stones, for spices, for shields, and for all kinds of costly vessels;
2Ch 32:28 storehouses also for the yield of grain, wine, and oil; and stalls for all kinds of cattle, and sheepfolds.
2Ch 32:29 He likewise provided cities for himself, and flocks and herds in abundance, for God had given him
very great possessions.
2Ch 32:30 This same Hezekiah closed the upper outlet of the waters of Gihon and directed them down to the
west side of the city of David. And Hezekiah prospered in all his works.
2Ch 32:31 And so in the matter of the envoys of the princes of Babylon, who had been sent to him to inquire
about the sign that had been done in the land, God left him to himself, in order to test him and to know all that
was in his heart.
2Ch 32:32 Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah and his good deeds, behold, they are written in the vision of
Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz, in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel.
2Ch 32:33 And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the upper part of the tombs of the sons of
David, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem did him honor at his death. And Manasseh his son reigned
in his place.
2Ch 33:1 Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem.
2Ch 33:2 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to the abominations of the nations whom
the LORD drove out before the people of Israel.
2Ch 33:3 For he rebuilt the high places that his father Hezekiah had broken down, and he erected altars to the
Baals, and made Asherahs, and worshiped all the host of heaven and served them.
2Ch 33:4 And he built altars in the house of the LORD, of which the LORD had said, "In Jerusalem shall my
name be forever."
2Ch 33:5 And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of the LORD.
2Ch 33:6 And he burned his sons as an offering in the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, and used fortune-telling and
omens and sorcery, and dealt with mediums and with wizards. He did much evil in the sight of the LORD,
provoking him to anger.
2Ch 33:7 And the carved image of the idol that he had made he set in the house of God, of which God said to
David and to Solomon his son, "In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of
Israel, I will put my name forever,
2Ch 33:8 and I will no more remove the foot of Israel from the land that I appointed for your fathers, if only they
will be careful to do all that I have commanded them, all the law, the statutes, and the rules given through
Moses."
2Ch 33:9 Manasseh led Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem astray, to do more evil than the nations whom
the LORD destroyed before the people of Israel.
2Ch 33:10 The LORD spoke to Manasseh and to his people, but they paid no attention.
2Ch 33:11 Therefore the LORD brought upon them the commanders of the army of the king of Assyria, who
captured Manasseh with hooks and bound him with chains of bronze and brought him to Babylon.
2Ch 33:12 And when he was in distress, he entreated the favor of the LORD his God and humbled himself
greatly before the God of his fathers.
2Ch 33:13 He prayed to him, and God was moved by his entreaty and heard his plea and brought him again to
Jerusalem into his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that the LORD was God.
2Ch 33:14 Afterward he built an outer wall for the city of David west of Gihon, in the valley, and for the entrance
into the Fish Gate, and carried it around Ophel, and raised it to a very great height. He also put commanders of
the army in all the fortified cities in Judah.
2Ch 33:15 And he took away the foreign gods and the idol from the house of the LORD, and all the altars that
he had built on the mountain of the house of the LORD and in Jerusalem, and he threw them outside of the city.
2Ch 33:16 He also restored the altar of the LORD and offered on it sacrifices of peace offerings and of
thanksgiving, and he commanded Judah to serve the LORD, the God of Israel.
2Ch 33:17 Nevertheless, the people still sacrificed at the high places, but only to the LORD their God.
2Ch 33:18 Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, and his prayer to his God, and the words of the seers who
spoke to him in the name of the LORD, the God of Israel, behold, they are in the Chronicles of the Kings of
Israel.
2Ch 33:19 And his prayer, and how God was moved by his entreaty, and all his sin and his faithlessness, and
the sites on which he built high places and set up the Asherim and the images, before he humbled himself,behold, they are written in the Chronicles of the Seers.
2Ch 33:20 So Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him in his house, and Amon his son reigned in
his place.
2Ch 33:21 Amon was twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned two years in Jerusalem.
2Ch 33:22 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, as Manasseh his father had done. Amon
sacrificed to all the images that Manasseh his father had made, and served them.
2Ch 33:23 And he did not humble himself before the LORD, as Manasseh his father had humbled himself, but
this Amon incurred guilt more and more.
2Ch 33:24 And his servants conspired against him and put him to death in his house.
2Ch 33:25 But the people of the land struck down all those who had conspired against King Amon. And the
people of the land made Josiah his son king in his place.
2Ch 34:1 Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem.
2Ch 34:2 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, and walked in the ways of David his father; and he
did not turn aside to the right hand or to the left.
2Ch 34:3 For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet a boy, he began to seek the God of David his
father, and in the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem of the high places, the Asherim, and the
carved and the metal images.
2Ch 34:4 And they chopped down the altars of the Baals in his presence, and he cut down the incense altars
that stood above them. And he broke in pieces the Asherim and the carved and the metal images, and he made
dust of them and scattered it over the graves of those who had sacrificed to them.
2Ch 34:5 He also burned the bones of the priests on their altars and cleansed Judah and Jerusalem.
2Ch 34:6 And in the cities of Manasseh, Ephraim, and Simeon, and as far as Naphtali, in their ruins all around,
2Ch 34:7 he broke down the altars and beat the Asherim and the images into powder and cut down all the
incense altars throughout all the land of Israel. Then he returned to Jerusalem.
2Ch 34:8 Now in the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had cleansed the land and the house, he sent
Shaphan the son of Azaliah, and Maaseiah the governor of the city, and Joah the son of Joahaz, the recorder, to
repair the house of the LORD his God.
2Ch 34:9 They came to Hilkiah the high priest and gave him the money that had been brought into the house of
God, which the Levites, the keepers of the threshold, had collected from Manasseh and Ephraim and from all the
remnant of Israel and from all Judah and Benjamin and from the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
2Ch 34:10 And they gave it to the workmen who were working in the house of the LORD. And the workmen who
were working in the house of the LORD gave it for repairing and restoring the house.
2Ch 34:11 They gave it to the carpenters and the builders to buy quarried stone, and timber for binders and
beams for the buildings that the kings of Judah had let go to ruin.
2Ch 34:12 And the men did the work faithfully. Over them were set Jahath and Obadiah the Levites, of the sons
of Merari, and Zechariah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathites, to have oversight. The Levites, all who
were skillful with instruments of music,
2Ch 34:13 were over the burden bearers and directed all who did work in every kind of service, and some of the
Levites were scribes and officials and gatekeepers.
2Ch 34:14 While they were bringing out the money that had been brought into the house of the LORD, Hilkiah
the priest found the Book of the Law of the LORD given through Moses.
2Ch 34:15 Then Hilkiah answered and said to Shaphan the secretary, "I have found the Book of the Law in the
house of the LORD." And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan.
2Ch 34:16 Shaphan brought the book to the king, and further reported to the king, "All that was committed to
your servants they are doing.
2Ch 34:17 They have emptied out the money that was found in the house of the LORD and have given it into
the hand of the overseers and the workmen."
2Ch 34:18 Then Shaphan the secretary told the king, "Hilkiah the priest has given me a book." And Shaphan
read from it before the king.
2Ch 34:19 And when the king heard the words of the Law, he tore his clothes.
2Ch 34:20 And the king commanded Hilkiah, Ahikam the son of Shaphan, Abdon the son of Micah, Shaphan
the secretary, and Asaiah the king's servant, saying,
2Ch 34:21 "Go, inquire of the LORD for me and for those who are left in Israel and in Judah, concerning the
words of the book that has been found. For great is the wrath of the LORD that is poured out on us, because our
fathers have not kept the word of the LORD, to do according to all that is written in this book."
2Ch 34:22 So Hilkiah and those whom the king had sent went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the
son of Tokhath, son of Hasrah, keeper of the wardrobe (now she lived in Jerusalem in the Second Quarter) and
spoke to her to that effect.
2Ch 34:23 And she said to them, "Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: 'Tell the man who sent you to me,2Ch 34:24 Thus says the LORD, behold, I will bring disaster upon this place and upon its inhabitants, all the
curses that are written in the book that was read before the king of Judah.
2Ch 34:25 Because they have forsaken me and have made offerings to other gods, that they might provoke me
to anger with all the works of their hands, therefore my wrath will be poured out on this place and will not be
quenched.
2Ch 34:26 But to the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of the LORD, thus shall you say to him, Thus says
the LORD, the God of Israel: Regarding the words that you have heard,
2Ch 34:27 because your heart was tender and you humbled yourself before God when you heard his words
against this place and its inhabitants, and you have humbled yourself before me and have torn your clothes and
wept before me, I also have heard you, declares the LORD.
2Ch 34:28 Behold, I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace, and your
eyes shall not see all the disaster that I will bring upon this place and its inhabitants.'"And they brought back
word to the king.
2Ch 34:29 Then the king sent and gathered together all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem.
2Ch 34:30 And the king went up to the house of the LORD, with all the men of Judah and the inhabitants of
Jerusalem and the priests and the Levites, all the people both great and small. And he read in their hearing all
the words of the Book of the Covenant that had been found in the house of the LORD.
2Ch 34:31 And the king stood in his place and made a covenant before the LORD, to walk after the LORD and
to keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes, with all his heart and all his soul, to perform the
words of the covenant that were written in this book.
2Ch 34:32 Then he made all who were present in Jerusalem and in Benjamin stand to it. And the inhabitants of
Jerusalem did according to the covenant of God, the God of their fathers.
2Ch 34:33 And Josiah took away all the abominations from all the territory that belonged to the people of Israel
and made all who were present in Israel serve the LORD their God. All his days they did not turn away from
following the LORD, the God of their fathers.
2Ch 35:1 Josiah kept a Passover to the LORD in Jerusalem. And they slaughtered the Passover lamb on the
fourteenth day of the first month.
2Ch 35:2 He appointed the priests to their offices and encouraged them in the service of the house of the
LORD.
2Ch 35:3 And he said to the Levites who taught all Israel and who were holy to the LORD, "Put the holy ark in
the house that Solomon the son of David, king of Israel, built. You need not carry it on your shoulders. Now
serve the LORD your God and his people Israel.
2Ch 35:4 Prepare yourselves according to your fathers' houses by your divisions, as prescribed in the writing of
David king of Israel and the document of Solomon his son.
2Ch 35:5 And stand in the Holy Place according to the groupings of the fathers' houses of your brothers the lay
people, and according to the division of the Levites by fathers' household.
2Ch 35:6 And slaughter the Passover lamb, and consecrate yourselves, and prepare for your brothers, to do
according to the word of the LORD by Moses."
2Ch 35:7 Then Josiah contributed to the lay people, as Passover offerings for all who were present, lambs and
young goats from the flock to the number of 30,000, and 3,000 bulls; these were from the king's possessions.
2Ch 35:8 And his officials contributed willingly to the people, to the priests, and to the Levites. Hilkiah,
Zechariah, and Jehiel, the chief officers of the house of God, gave to the priests for the Passover offerings 2,600
Passover lambs and 300 bulls.
2Ch 35:9 Conaniah also, and Shemaiah and Nethanel his brothers, and Hashabiah and Jeiel and Jozabad, the
chiefs of the Levites, gave to the Levites for the Passover offerings 5,000 lambs and young goats and 500 bulls.
2Ch 35:10 When the service had been prepared for, the priests stood in their place, and the Levites in their
divisions according to the king's command.
2Ch 35:11 And they slaughtered the Passover lamb, and the priests threw the blood that they received from
them while the Levites flayed the sacrifices.
2Ch 35:12 And they set aside the burnt offerings that they might distribute them according to the groupings of
the fathers' houses of the lay people, to offer to the LORD, as it is written in the Book of Moses. And so they did
with the bulls.
2Ch 35:13 And they roasted the Passover lamb with fire according to the rule; and they boiled the holy offerings
in pots, in cauldrons, and in pans, and carried them quickly to all the lay people.
2Ch 35:14 And afterward they prepared for themselves and for the priests, because the priests the sons of
Aaron were offering the burnt offerings and the fat parts until night; so the Levites prepared for themselves and
for the priests the sons of Aaron.
2Ch 35:15 The singers, the sons of Asaph, were in their place according to the command of David, and Asaph,
and Heman, and Jeduthun the king's seer; and the gatekeepers were at each gate. They did not need to departfrom their service, for their brothers the Levites prepared for them.
2Ch 35:16 So all the service of the LORD was prepared that day, to keep the Passover and to offer burnt
offerings on the altar of the LORD, according to the command of King Josiah.
2Ch 35:17 And the people of Israel who were present kept the Passover at that time, and the Feast of
Unleavened Bread seven days.
2Ch 35:18 No Passover like it had been kept in Israel since the days of Samuel the prophet. None of the kings
of Israel had kept such a Passover as was kept by Josiah, and the priests and the Levites, and all Judah and
Israel who were present, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
2Ch 35:19 In the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah this Passover was kept.
2Ch 35:20 After all this, when Josiah had prepared the temple, Neco king of Egypt went up to fight at
Carchemish on the Euphrates and Josiah went out to meet him.
2Ch 35:21 But he sent envoys to him, saying, "What have we to do with each other, king of Judah? I am not
coming against you this day, but against the house with which I am at war. And God has commanded me to
hurry. Cease opposing God, who is with me, lest he destroy you."
2Ch 35:22 Nevertheless, Josiah did not turn away from him, but disguised himself in order to fight with him. He
did not listen to the words of Neco from the mouth of God, but came to fight in the plain of Megiddo.
2Ch 35:23 And the archers shot King Josiah. And the king said to his servants, "Take me away, for I am badly
wounded."
2Ch 35:24 So his servants took him out of the chariot and carried him in his second chariot and brought him to
Jerusalem. And he died and was buried in the tombs of his fathers. All Judah and Jerusalem mourned for
Josiah.
2Ch 35:25 Jeremiah also uttered a lament for Josiah; and all the singing men and singing women have spoken
of Josiah in their laments to this day. They made these a rule in Israel; behold, they are written in the Laments.
2Ch 35:26 Now the rest of the acts of Josiah, and his good deeds according to what is written in the Law of the
LORD,
2Ch 35:27 and his acts, first and last, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah.
2Ch 36:1 The people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah and made him king in his father's place in
Jerusalem.
2Ch 36:2 Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months in
Jerusalem.
2Ch 36:3 Then the king of Egypt deposed him in Jerusalem and laid on the land a tribute of a hundred talents of
silver and a talent of gold.
2Ch 36:4 And the king of Egypt made Eliakim his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem, and changed his
name to Jehoiakim. But Neco took Jehoahaz his brother and carried him to Egypt.
2Ch 36:5 Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in
Jerusalem. He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD his God.
2Ch 36:6 Against him came up Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and bound him in chains to take him to
Babylon.
2Ch 36:7 Nebuchadnezzar also carried part of the vessels of the house of the LORD to Babylon and put them in
his palace in Babylon.
2Ch 36:8 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and the abominations that he did, and what was found against
him, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah. And Jehoiachin his son reigned in his
place.
2Ch 36:9 Jehoiachin was eight years old when he became king, and he reigned three months and ten days in
Jerusalem. He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD.
2Ch 36:10 In the spring of the year King Nebuchadnezzar sent and brought him to Babylon, with the precious
vessels of the house of the LORD, and made his brother Zedekiah king over Judah and Jerusalem.
2Ch 36:11 Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in
Jerusalem.
2Ch 36:12 He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD his God. He did not humble himself before Jeremiah
the prophet, who spoke from the mouth of the LORD.
2Ch 36:13 He also rebelled against King Nebuchadnezzar, who had made him swear by God. He stiffened his
neck and hardened his heart against turning to the LORD, the God of Israel.
2Ch 36:14 All the officers of the priests and the people likewise were exceedingly unfaithful, following all the
abominations of the nations. And they polluted the house of the LORD that he had made holy in Jerusalem.
2Ch 36:15 The LORD, the God of their fathers, sent persistently to them by his messengers, because he had
compassion on his people and on his dwelling place.
2Ch 36:16 But they kept mocking the messengers of God, despising his words and scoffing at his prophets, until
the wrath of the LORD rose against his people, until there was no remedy.2Ch 36:17 Therefore he brought up against them the king of the Chaldeans, who killed their young men with the
sword in the house of their sanctuary and had no compassion on young man or virgin, old man or aged. He gave
them all into his hand.
2Ch 36:18 And all the vessels of the house of God, great and small, and the treasures of the house of the
LORD, and the treasures of the king and of his princes, all these he brought to Babylon.
2Ch 36:19 And they burned the house of God and broke down the wall of Jerusalem and burned all its palaces
with fire and destroyed all its precious vessels.
2Ch 36:20 He took into exile in Babylon those who had escaped from the sword, and they became servants to
him and to his sons until the establishment of the kingdom of Persia,
2Ch 36:21 to fulfill the word of the LORD by the mouth of Jeremiah, until the land had enjoyed its Sabbaths. All
the days that it lay desolate it kept Sabbath, to fulfill seventy years.
2Ch 36:22 Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of the LORD by the mouth of Jeremiah
might be fulfilled, the LORD stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, so that he made a proclamation
throughout all his kingdom and also put it in writing:
2Ch 36:23 "Thus says Cyrus king of Persia, 'The LORD, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of
the earth, and he has charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whoever is among you
of all his people, may the LORD his God be with him. Let him go up.'"
Ezr 1:1 In the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of the LORD by the mouth of Jeremiah might be
fulfilled, the LORD stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his
kingdom and also put it in writing:
Ezr 1:2 "Thus says Cyrus king of Persia: The LORD, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the
earth, and he has charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah.
Ezr 1:3 Whoever is among you of all his people, may his God be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem,
which is in Judah, and rebuild the house of the LORD, the God of Israel- he is the God who is in Jerusalem.
Ezr 1:4 And let each survivor, in whatever place he sojourns, be assisted by the men of his place with silver and
gold, with goods and with beasts, besides freewill offerings for the house of God that is in Jerusalem."
Ezr 1:5 Then rose up the heads of the fathers' houses of Judah and Benjamin, and the priests and the Levites,
everyone whose spirit God had stirred to go up to rebuild the house of the LORD that is in Jerusalem.
Ezr 1:6 And all who were about them aided them with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, with beasts, and
with costly wares, besides all that was freely offered.
Ezr 1:7 Cyrus the king also brought out the vessels of the house of the LORD that Nebuchadnezzar had carried
away from Jerusalem and placed in the house of his gods.
Ezr 1:8 Cyrus king of Persia brought these out in charge of Mithredath the treasurer, who counted them out to
Sheshbazzar the prince of Judah.
Ezr 1:9 And this was the number of them: 30 basins of gold, 1,000 basins of silver, 29 censers,
Ezr 1:10 30 bowls of gold, 410 bowls of silver, and 1,000 other vessels;
Ezr 1:11 all the vessels of gold and of silver were 5,400. All these did Sheshbazzar bring up, when the exiles
were brought up from Babylonia to Jerusalem.
Ezr 2:1 Now these were the people of the province who came up out of the captivity of those exiles whom
Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried captive to Babylonia. They returned to Jerusalem and Judah,
each to his own town.
Ezr 2:2 They came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai,
Rehum, and Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:
Ezr 2:3 the sons of Parosh, 2,172.
Ezr 2:4 The sons of Shephatiah, 372.
Ezr 2:5 The sons of Arah, 775.
Ezr 2:6 The sons of Pahath-moab, namely the sons of Jeshua and Joab, 2,812.
Ezr 2:7 The sons of Elam, 1,254.
Ezr 2:8 The sons of Zattu, 945.
Ezr 2:9 The sons of Zaccai, 760.
Ezr 2:10 The sons of Bani, 642.
Ezr 2:11 The sons of Bebai, 623.
Ezr 2:12 The sons of Azgad, 1,222.
Ezr 2:13 The sons of Adonikam, 666.
Ezr 2:14 The sons of Bigvai, 2,056.
Ezr 2:15 The sons of Adin, 454.
Ezr 2:16 The sons of Ater, namely of Hezekiah, 98.
Ezr 2:17 The sons of Bezai, 323.
Ezr 2:18 The sons of Jorah, 112.Ezr 2:19 The sons of Hashum, 223.
Ezr 2:20 The sons of Gibbar, 95.
Ezr 2:21 The sons of Bethlehem, 123.
Ezr 2:22 The men of Netophah, 56.
Ezr 2:23 The men of Anathoth, 128.
Ezr 2:24 The sons of Azmaveth, 42.
Ezr 2:25 The sons of Kiriath-arim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, 743.
Ezr 2:26 The sons of Ramah and Geba, 621.
Ezr 2:27 The men of Michmas, 122.
Ezr 2:28 The men of Bethel and Ai, 223.
Ezr 2:29 The sons of Nebo, 52.
Ezr 2:30 The sons of Magbish, 156.
Ezr 2:31 The sons of the other Elam, 1,254.
Ezr 2:32 The sons of Harim, 320.
Ezr 2:33 The sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, 725.
Ezr 2:34 The sons of Jericho, 345.
Ezr 2:35 The sons of Senaah, 3,630.
Ezr 2:36 The priests: the sons of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, 973.
Ezr 2:37 The sons of Immer, 1,052.
Ezr 2:38 The sons of Pashhur, 1,247.
Ezr 2:39 The sons of Harim, 1,017.
Ezr 2:40 The Levites: the sons of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the sons of Hodaviah, 74.
Ezr 2:41 The singers: the sons of Asaph, 128.
Ezr 2:42 The sons of the gatekeepers: the sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of
Akkub, the sons of Hatita, and the sons of Shobai, in all 139.
Ezr 2:43 The temple servants: the sons of Ziha, the sons of Hasupha, the sons of Tabbaoth,
Ezr 2:44 the sons of Keros, the sons of Siaha, the sons of Padon,
Ezr 2:45 the sons of Lebanah, the sons of Hagabah, the sons of Akkub,
Ezr 2:46 the sons of Hagab, the sons of Shamlai, the sons of Hanan,
Ezr 2:47 the sons of Giddel, the sons of Gahar, the sons of Reaiah,
Ezr 2:48 the sons of Rezin, the sons of Nekoda, the sons of Gazzam,
Ezr 2:49 the sons of Uzza, the sons of Paseah, the sons of Besai,
Ezr 2:50 the sons of Asnah, the sons of Meunim, the sons of Nephisim,
Ezr 2:51 the sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Harhur,
Ezr 2:52 the sons of Bazluth, the sons of Mehida, the sons of Harsha,
Ezr 2:53 the sons of Barkos, the sons of Sisera, the sons of Temah,
Ezr 2:54 the sons of Neziah, and the sons of Hatipha.
Ezr 2:55 The sons of Solomon's servants: the sons of Sotai, the sons of Hassophereth, the sons of Peruda,
Ezr 2:56 the sons of Jaalah, the sons of Darkon, the sons of Giddel,
Ezr 2:57 the sons of Shepha-tiah, the sons of Hattil, the sons of Pochereth-hazzebaim, and the sons of Ami.
Ezr 2:58 All the temple servants and the sons of Solomon's servants were 392.
Ezr 2:59 The following were those who came up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsha, Cherub, Addan, and Immer,
though they could not prove their fathers' houses or their descent, whether they belonged to Israel:
Ezr 2:60 the sons of Delaiah, the sons of Tobiah, and the sons of Nekoda, 652.
Ezr 2:61 Also, of the sons of the priests: the sons of Habaiah, the sons of Hakkoz, and the sons of Barzillai (who
had taken a wife from the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called by their name).
Ezr 2:62 These sought their registration among those enrolled in the genealogies, but they were not found
there, and so they were excluded from the priesthood as unclean.
Ezr 2:63 The governor told them that they were not to partake of the most holy food, until there should be a
priest to consult Urim and Thummim.
Ezr 2:64 The whole assembly together was 42,360,
Ezr 2:65 besides their male and female servants, of whom there were 7,337, and they had 200 male and female
singers.
Ezr 2:66 Their horses were 736, their mules were 245,
Ezr 2:67 their camels were 435, and their donkeys were 6,720.
Ezr 2:68 Some of the heads of families, when they came to the house of the LORD that is in Jerusalem, made
freewill offerings for the house of God, to erect it on its site.
Ezr 2:69 According to their ability they gave to the treasury of the work 61,000 darics of gold, 5,000 minas of
silver, and 100 priests' garments.Ezr 2:70 Now the priests, the Levites, some of the people, the singers, the gatekeepers, and the temple
servants lived in their towns, and all the rest of Israel in their towns.
Ezr 3:1 When the seventh month came, and the children of Israel were in the towns, the people gathered as one
man to Jerusalem.
Ezr 3:2 Then arose Jeshua the son of Jozadak, with his fellow priests, and Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel with
his kinsmen, and they built the altar of the God of Israel, to offer burnt offerings on it, as it is written in the Law of
Moses the man of God.
Ezr 3:3 They set the altar in its place, for fear was on them because of the peoples of the lands, and they
offered burnt offerings on it to the LORD, burnt offerings morning and evening.
Ezr 3:4 And they kept the Feast of Booths, as it is written, and offered the daily burnt offerings by number
according to the rule, as each day required,
Ezr 3:5 and after that the regular burnt offerings, the offerings at the new moon and at all the appointed feasts of
the LORD, and the offerings of everyone who made a freewill offering to the LORD.
Ezr 3:6 From the first day of the seventh month they began to offer burnt offerings to the LORD. But the
foundation of the temple of the LORD was not yet laid.
Ezr 3:7 So they gave money to the masons and the carpenters, and food, drink, and oil to the Sidonians and the
Tyrians to bring cedar trees from Lebanon to the sea, to Joppa, according to the grant that they had from Cyrus
king of Persia.
Ezr 3:8 Now in the second year after their coming to the house of God at Jerusalem, in the second month,
Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and Jeshua the son of Jozadak made a beginning, together with the rest of their
kinsmen, the priests and the Levites and all who had come to Jerusalem from the captivity. They appointed the
Levites, from twenty years old and upward, to supervise the work of the house of the LORD.
Ezr 3:9 And Jeshua with his sons and his brothers, and Kadmiel and his sons, the sons of Judah, together
supervised the workmen in the house of God, along with the sons of Henadad and the Levites, their sons and
brothers.
Ezr 3:10 And when the builders laid the foundation of the temple of the LORD, the priests in their vestments
came forward with trumpets, and the Levites, the sons of Asaph, with cymbals, to praise the LORD, according to
the directions of David king of Israel.
Ezr 3:11 And they sang responsively, praising and giving thanks to the LORD, "For he is good, for his steadfast
love endures forever toward Israel." And all the people shouted with a great shout when they praised the LORD,
because the foundation of the house of the LORD was laid.
Ezr 3:12 But many of the priests and Levites and heads of fathers' houses, old men who had seen the first
house, wept with a loud voice when they saw the foundation of this house being laid, though many shouted
aloud for joy,
Ezr 3:13 so that the people could not distinguish the sound of the joyful shout from the sound of the people's
weeping, for the people shouted with a great shout, and the sound was heard far away.
Ezr 4:1 Now when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the returned exiles were building a temple
to the LORD, the God of Israel,
Ezr 4:2 they approached Zerubbabel and the heads of fathers' houses and said to them, "Let us build with you,
for we worship your God as you do, and we have been sacrificing to him ever since the days of Esarhaddon king
of Assyria who brought us here."
Ezr 4:3 But Zerubbabel, Jeshua, and the rest of the heads of fathers' houses in Israel said to them, "You have
nothing to do with us in building a house to our God; but we alone will build to the LORD, the God of Israel, as
King Cyrus the king of Persia has commanded us."
Ezr 4:4 Then the people of the land discouraged the people of Judah and made them afraid to build
Ezr 4:5 and bribed counselors against them to frustrate their purpose, all the days of Cyrus king of Persia, even
until the reign of Darius king of Persia.
Ezr 4:6 And in the reign of Ahasuerus, in the beginning of his reign, they wrote an accusation against the
inhabitants of Judah and Jerusalem.
Ezr 4:7 In the days of Artaxerxes, Bishlam and Mithredath and Tabeel and the rest of their associates wrote to
Artaxerxes king of Persia. The letter was written in Aramaic and translated.
Ezr 4:8 Rehum the commander and Shimshai the scribe wrote a letter against Jerusalem to Artaxerxes the king
as follows:
Ezr 4:9 Rehum the commander, Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of their associates, the judges, the governors,
the officials, the Persians, the men of Erech, the Babylonians, the men of Susa, that is, the Elamites,
Ezr 4:10 and the rest of the nations whom the great and noble Osnappar deported and settled in the cities of
Samaria and in the rest of the province Beyond the River.
Ezr 4:11 (This is a copy of the letter that they sent.) "To Artaxerxes the king: Your servants, the men of the
province Beyond the River, send greeting. And nowEzr 4:12 be it known to the king that the Jews who came up from you to us have gone to Jerusalem. They are
rebuilding that rebellious and wicked city. They are finishing the walls and repairing the foundations.
Ezr 4:13 Now be it known to the king that if this city is rebuilt and the walls finished, they will not pay tribute,
custom, or toll, and the royal revenue will be impaired.
Ezr 4:14 Now because we eat the salt of the palace and it is not fitting for us to witness the king's dishonor,
therefore we send and inform the king,
Ezr 4:15 in order that search may be made in the book of the records of your fathers. You will find in the book of
the records and learn that this city is a rebellious city, hurtful to kings and provinces, and that sedition was stirred
up in it from of old. That was why this city was laid waste.
Ezr 4:16 We make known to the king that if this city is rebuilt and its walls finished, you will then have no
possession in the province Beyond the River."
Ezr 4:17 The king sent an answer: "To Rehum the commander and Shimshai the scribe and the rest of their
associates who live in Samaria and in the rest of the province Beyond the River, greeting. And now
Ezr 4:18 the letter that you sent to us has been plainly read before me.
Ezr 4:19 And I made a decree, and search has been made, and it has been found that this city from of old has
risen against kings, and that rebellion and sedition have been made in it.
Ezr 4:20 And mighty kings have been over Jerusalem, who ruled over the whole province Beyond the River, to
whom tribute, custom, and toll were paid.
Ezr 4:21 Therefore make a decree that these men be made to cease, and that this city be not rebuilt, until a
decree is made by me.
Ezr 4:22 And take care not to be slack in this matter. Why should damage grow to the hurt of the king?"
Ezr 4:23 Then, when the copy of King Artaxerxes' letter was read before Rehum and Shimshai the scribe and
their associates, they went in haste to the Jews at Jerusalem and by force and power made them cease.
Ezr 4:24 Then the work on the house of God that is in Jerusalem stopped, and it ceased until the second year of
the reign of Darius king of Persia.
Ezr 5:1 Now the prophets, Haggai and Zechariah the son of Iddo, prophesied to the Jews who were in Judah
and Jerusalem, in the name of the God of Israel who was over them.
Ezr 5:2 Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and Jeshua the son of Jozadak arose and began to rebuild the
house of God that is in Jerusalem, and the prophets of God were with them, supporting them.
Ezr 5:3 At the same time Tattenai the governor of the province Beyond the River and Shethar-bozenai and their
associates came to them and spoke to them thus, "Who gave you a decree to build this house and to finish this
structure?"
Ezr 5:4 They also asked them this: "What are the names of the men who are building this building?"
Ezr 5:5 But the eye of their God was on the elders of the Jews, and they did not stop them until the report
should reach Darius and then an answer be returned by letter concerning it.
Ezr 5:6 This is a copy of the letter that Tattenai the governor of the province Beyond the River and Shetharbozenai and his associates the governors who were in the province Beyond the River sent to Darius the king.
Ezr 5:7 They sent him a report, in which was written as follows: "To Darius the king, all peace.
Ezr 5:8 Be it known to the king that we went to the province of Judah, to the house of the great God. It is being
built with huge stones, and timber is laid in the walls. This work goes on diligently and prospers in their hands.
Ezr 5:9 Then we asked those elders and spoke to them thus, 'Who gave you a decree to build this house and to
finish this structure?'
Ezr 5:10 We also asked them their names, for your information, that we might write down the names of their
leaders.
Ezr 5:11 And this was their reply to us: 'We are the servants of the God of heaven and earth, and we are
rebuilding the house that was built many years ago, which a great king of Israel built and finished.
Ezr 5:12 But because our fathers had angered the God of heaven, he gave them into the hand of
Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, the Chaldean, who destroyed this house and carried away the people to
Babylonia.
Ezr 5:13 However, in the first year of Cyrus king of Babylon, Cyrus the king made a decree that this house of
God should be rebuilt.
Ezr 5:14 And the gold and silver vessels of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar had taken out of the
temple that was in Jerusalem and brought into the temple of Babylon, these Cyrus the king took out of the
temple of Babylon, and they were delivered to one whose name was Shesh-bazzar, whom he had made
governor;
Ezr 5:15 and he said to him, "Take these vessels, go and put them in the temple that is in Jerusalem, and let the
house of God be rebuilt on its site."
Ezr 5:16 Then this Sheshbazzar came and laid the foundations of the house of God that is in Jerusalem, and
from that time until now it has been in building, and it is not yet finished.'Ezr 5:17 Therefore, if it seems good to the king, let search be made in the royal archives there in Babylon, to
see whether a decree was issued by Cyrus the king for the rebuilding of this house of God in Jerusalem. And let
the king send us his pleasure in this matter."
Ezr 6:1 Then Darius the king made a decree, and search was made in Babylonia, in the house of the archives
where the documents were stored.
Ezr 6:2 And in Ecbatana, the capital that is in the province of Media, a scroll was found on which this was
written: "A record.
Ezr 6:3 In the first year of Cyrus the king, Cyrus the king issued a decree: Concerning the house of God at
Jerusalem, let the house be rebuilt, the place where sacrifices were offered, and let its foundations be retained.
Its height shall be sixty cubits and its breadth sixty cubits,
Ezr 6:4 with three layers of great stones and one layer of timber. Let the cost be paid from the royal treasury.
Ezr 6:5 And also let the gold and silver vessels of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the
temple that is in Jerusalem and brought to Babylon, be restored and brought back to the temple that is in
Jerusalem, each to its place. You shall put them in the house of God.
Ezr 6:6 "Now therefore, Tattenai, governor of the province Beyond the River, Shethar-bozenai, and your
associates the governors who are in the province Beyond the River, keep away.
Ezr 6:7 Let the work on this house of God alone. Let the governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews rebuild
this house of God on its site.
Ezr 6:8 Moreover, I make a decree regarding what you shall do for these elders of the Jews for the rebuilding of
this house of God. The cost is to be paid to these men in full and without delay from the royal revenue, the
tribute of the province from Beyond the River.
Ezr 6:9 And whatever is needed- bulls, rams, or sheep for burnt offerings to the God of heaven, wheat, salt,
wine, or oil, as the priests at Jerusalem require- let that be given to them day by day without fail,
Ezr 6:10 that they may offer pleasing sacrifices to the God of heaven and pray for the life of the king and his
sons.
Ezr 6:11 Also I make a decree that if anyone alters this edict, a beam shall be pulled out of his house, and he
shall be impaled on it, and his house shall be made a dunghill.
Ezr 6:12 May the God who has caused his name to dwell there overthrow any king or people who shall put out a
hand to alter this, or to destroy this house of God that is in Jerusalem. I Darius make a decree; let it be done with
all diligence."
Ezr 6:13 Then, according to the word sent by Darius the king, Tattenai, the governor of the province Beyond the
River, Shethar-bozenai, and their associates did with all diligence what Darius the king had ordered.
Ezr 6:14 And the elders of the Jews built and prospered through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and
Zechariah the son of Iddo. They finished their building by decree of the God of Israel and by decree of Cyrus and
Darius and Artaxerxes king of Persia;
Ezr 6:15 and this house was finished on the third day of the month of Adar, in the sixth year of the reign of
Darius the king.
Ezr 6:16 And the people of Israel, the priests and the Levites, and the rest of the returned exiles, celebrated the
dedication of this house of God with joy.
Ezr 6:17 They offered at the dedication of this house of God 100 bulls, 200 rams, 400 lambs, and as a sin
offering for all Israel 12 male goats, according to the number of the tribes of Israel.
Ezr 6:18 And they set the priests in their divisions and the Levites in their divisions, for the service of God at
Jerusalem, as it is written in the Book of Moses.
Ezr 6:19 On the fourteenth day of the first month, the returned exiles kept the Passover.
Ezr 6:20 For the priests and the Levites had purified themselves together; all of them were clean. So they
slaughtered the Passover lamb for all the returned exiles, for their fellow priests, and for themselves.
Ezr 6:21 It was eaten by the people of Israel who had returned from exile, and also by everyone who had joined
them and separated himself from the uncleanness of the peoples of the land to worship the LORD, the God of
Israel.
Ezr 6:22 And they kept the Feast of Unleavened Bread seven days with joy, for the LORD had made them joyful
and had turned the heart of the king of Assyria to them, so that he aided them in the work of the house of God,
the God of Israel.
Ezr 7:1 Now after this, in the reign of Artaxerxes king of Persia, Ezra the son of Seraiah, son of Azariah, son of
Hilkiah,
Ezr 7:2 son of Shallum, son of Zadok, son of Ahitub,
Ezr 7:3 son of Amariah, son of Azariah, son of Meraioth,
Ezr 7:4 son of Zerahiah, son of Uzzi, son of Bukki,
Ezr 7:5 son of Abishua, son of Phinehas, son of Eleazar, son of Aaron the chief priestEzr 7:6 this Ezra went up from Babylonia. He was a scribe skilled in the Law of Moses that the LORD the God ofIsrael had given, and the king granted him all that he asked, for the hand of the LORD his God was on him.
Ezr 7:7 And there went up also to Jerusalem, in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the king, some of the people of
Israel, and some of the priests and Levites, the singers and gatekeepers, and the temple servants.
Ezr 7:8 And he came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, which was in the seventh year of the king.
Ezr 7:9 For on the first day of the first month he began to go up from Babylonia, and on the first day of the fifth
month he came to Jerusalem, for the good hand of his God was on him.
Ezr 7:10 For Ezra had set his heart to study the Law of the LORD, and to do it and to teach his statutes and
rules in Israel.
Ezr 7:11 This is a copy of the letter that King Artaxerxes gave to Ezra the priest, the scribe, a man learned in
matters of the commandments of the LORD and his statutes for Israel:
Ezr 7:12 "Artaxerxes, king of kings, to Ezra the priest, the scribe of the Law of the God of heaven. Peace. And
now
Ezr 7:13 I make a decree that anyone of the people of Israel or their priests or Levites in my kingdom, who
freely offers to go to Jerusalem, may go with you.
Ezr 7:14 For you are sent by the king and his seven counselors to make inquiries about Judah and Jerusalem
according to the Law of your God, which is in your hand,
Ezr 7:15 and also to carry the silver and gold that the king and his counselors have freely offered to the God of
Israel, whose dwelling is in Jerusalem,
Ezr 7:16 with all the silver and gold that you shall find in the whole province of Babylonia, and with the freewill
offerings of the people and the priests, vowed willingly for the house of their God that is in Jerusalem.
Ezr 7:17 With this money, then, you shall with all diligence buy bulls, rams, and lambs, with their grain offerings
and their drink offerings, and you shall offer them on the altar of the house of your God that is in Jerusalem.
Ezr 7:18 Whatever seems good to you and your brothers to do with the rest of the silver and gold, you may do,
according to the will of your God.
Ezr 7:19 The vessels that have been given you for the service of the house of your God, you shall deliver before
the God of Jerusalem.
Ezr 7:20 And whatever else is required for the house of your God, which it falls to you to provide, you may
provide it out of the king's treasury.
Ezr 7:21 "And I, Artaxerxes the king, make a decree to all the treasurers in the province Beyond the River:
Whatever Ezra the priest, the scribe of the Law of the God of heaven, requires of you, let it be done with all
diligence,
Ezr 7:22 up to 100 talents of silver, 100 cors of wheat, 100 baths of wine, 100 baths of oil, and salt without
prescribing how much.
Ezr 7:23 Whatever is decreed by the God of heaven, let it be done in full for the house of the God of heaven,
lest his wrath be against the realm of the king and his sons.
Ezr 7:24 We also notify you that it shall not be lawful to impose tribute, custom, or toll on anyone of the priests,
the Levites, the singers, the doorkeepers, the temple servants, or other servants of this house of God.
Ezr 7:25 "And you, Ezra, according to the wisdom of your God that is in your hand, appoint magistrates and
judges who may judge all the people in the province Beyond the River, all such as know the laws of your God.
And those who do not know them, you shall teach.
Ezr 7:26 Whoever will not obey the law of your God and the law of the king, let judgment be strictly executed on
him, whether for death or for banishment or for confiscation of his goods or for imprisonment."
Ezr 7:27 Blessed be the LORD, the God of our fathers, who put such a thing as this into the heart of the king, to
beautify the house of the LORD that is in Jerusalem,
Ezr 7:28 and who extended to me his steadfast love before the king and his counselors, and before all the king's
mighty officers. I took courage, for the hand of the LORD my God was on me, and I gathered leading men from
Israel to go up with me.
Ezr 8:1 These are the heads of their fathers' houses, and this is the genealogy of those who went up with me
from Babylonia, in the reign of Artaxerxes the king:
Ezr 8:2 Of the sons of Phinehas, Gershom. Of the sons of Ithamar, Daniel. Of the sons of David, Hattush.
Ezr 8:3 Of the sons of Shecaniah, who was of the sons of Parosh, Zechariah, with whom were registered 150
men.
Ezr 8:4 Of the sons of Pahath-moab, Eliehoenai the son of Zerahiah, and with him 200 men.
Ezr 8:5 Of the sons of Zattu, Shecaniah the son of Jahaziel, and with him 300 men.
Ezr 8:6 Of the sons of Adin, Ebed the son of Jonathan, and with him 50 men.
Ezr 8:7 Of the sons of Elam, Jeshaiah the son of Athaliah, and with him 70 men.
Ezr 8:8 Of the sons of Shephatiah, Zebadiah the son of Michael, and with him 80 men.
Ezr 8:9 Of the sons of Joab, Obadiah the son of Jehiel, and with him 218 men.
Ezr 8:10 Of the sons of Bani, Shelomith the son of Josiphiah, and with him 160 men.Ezr 8:11 Of the sons of Bebai, Zechariah, the son of Bebai, and with him 28 men.
Ezr 8:12 Of the sons of Azgad, Johanan the son of Hakkatan, and with him 110 men.
Ezr 8:13 Of the sons of Adonikam, those who came later, their names being Eliphelet, Jeuel, and Shemaiah,
and with them 60 men.
Ezr 8:14 Of the sons of Bigvai, Uthai and Zaccur, and with them 70 men.
Ezr 8:15 I gathered them to the river that runs to Ahava, and there we camped three days. As I reviewed the
people and the priests, I found there none of the sons of Levi.
Ezr 8:16 Then I sent for Eliezer, Ariel, Shemaiah, Elnathan, Jarib, Elnathan, Nathan, Zechariah, and Meshullam,
leading men, and for Joiarib and Elnathan, who were men of insight,
Ezr 8:17 and sent them to Iddo, the leading man at the place Casiphia, telling them what to say to Iddo and his
brothers and the temple servants at the place Casiphia, namely, to send us ministers for the house of our God.
Ezr 8:18 And by the good hand of our God on us, they brought us a man of discretion, of the sons of Mahli the
son of Levi, son of Israel, namely Sherebiah with his sons and kinsmen, 18;
Ezr 8:19 also Hashabiah, and with him Jeshaiah of the sons of Merari, with his kinsmen and their sons, 20;
Ezr 8:20 besides 220 of the temple servants, whom David and his officials had set apart to attend the Levites.
These were all mentioned by name.
Ezr 8:21 Then I proclaimed a fast there, at the river Ahava, that we might humble ourselves before our God, to
seek from him a safe journey for ourselves, our children, and all our goods.
Ezr 8:22 For I was ashamed to ask the king for a band of soldiers and horsemen to protect us against the
enemy on our way, since we had told the king, "The hand of our God is for good on all who seek him, and the
power of his wrath is against all who forsake him."
Ezr 8:23 So we fasted and implored our God for this, and he listened to our entreaty.
Ezr 8:24 Then I set apart twelve of the leading priests: Sherebiah, Hashabiah, and ten of their kinsmen with
them.
Ezr 8:25 And I weighed out to them the silver and the gold and the vessels, the offering for the house of our God
that the king and his counselors and his lords and all Israel there present had offered.
Ezr 8:26 I weighed out into their hand 650 talents of silver, and silver vessels worth 200 talents, and 100 talents
of gold,
Ezr 8:27 20 bowls of gold worth 1,000 darics, and two vessels of fine bright bronze as precious as gold.
Ezr 8:28 And I said to them, "You are holy to the LORD, and the vessels are holy, and the silver and the gold
are a freewill offering to the LORD, the God of your fathers.
Ezr 8:29 Guard them and keep them until you weigh them before the chief priests and the Levites and the
heads of fathers' houses in Israel at Jerusalem, within the chambers of the house of the LORD."
Ezr 8:30 So the priests and the Levites took over the weight of the silver and the gold and the vessels, to bring
them to Jerusalem, to the house of our God.
Ezr 8:31 Then we departed from the river Ahava on the twelfth day of the first month, to go to Jerusalem. The
hand of our God was on us, and he delivered us from the hand of the enemy and from ambushes by the way.
Ezr 8:32 We came to Jerusalem, and there we remained three days.
Ezr 8:33 On the fourth day, within the house of our God, the silver and the gold and the vessels were weighed
into the hands of Meremoth the priest, son of Uriah, and with him was Eleazar the son of Phinehas, and with
them were the Levites, Jozabad the son of Jeshua and Noadiah the son of Binnui.
Ezr 8:34 The whole was counted and weighed, and the weight of everything was recorded.
Ezr 8:35 At that time those who had come from captivity, the returned exiles, offered burnt offerings to the God
of Israel, twelve bulls for all Israel, ninety-six rams, seventy-seven lambs, and as a sin offering twelve male
goats. All this was a burnt offering to the LORD.
Ezr 8:36 They also delivered the king's commissions to the king's satraps and to the governors of the province
Beyond the River, and they aided the people and the house of God.
Ezr 9:1 After these things had been done, the officials approached me and said, "The people of Israel and the
priests and the Levites have not separated themselves from the peoples of the lands with their abominations,
from the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and
the Amorites.
Ezr 9:2 For they have taken some of their daughters to be wives for themselves and for their sons, so that the
holy race has mixed itself with the peoples of the lands. And in this faithlessness the hand of the officials and
chief men has been foremost."
Ezr 9:3 As soon as I heard this, I tore my garment and my cloak and pulled hair from my head and beard and
sat appalled.
Ezr 9:4 Then all who trembled at the words of the God of Israel, because of the faithlessness of the returned
exiles, gathered around me while I sat appalled until the evening sacrifice.
Ezr 9:5 And at the evening sacrifice I rose from my fasting, with my garment and my cloak torn, and fell upon myknees and spread out my hands to the LORD my God,
Ezr 9:6 saying: "O my God, I am ashamed and blush to lift my face to you, my God, for our iniquities have risen
higher than our heads, and our guilt has mounted up to the heavens.
Ezr 9:7 From the days of our fathers to this day we have been in great guilt. And for our iniquities we, our kings,
and our priests have been given into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, to plundering,
and to utter shame, as it is today.
Ezr 9:8 But now for a brief moment favor has been shown by the LORD our God, to leave us a remnant and to
give us a secure hold within his holy place, that our God may brighten our eyes and grant us a little reviving in
our slavery.
Ezr 9:9 For we are slaves. Yet our God has not forsaken us in our slavery, but has extended to us his steadfast
love before the kings of Persia, to grant us some reviving to set up the house of our God, to repair its ruins, and
to give us protection in Judea and Jerusalem.
Ezr 9:10 "And now, O our God, what shall we say after this? For we have forsaken your commandments,
Ezr 9:11 which you commanded by your servants the prophets, saying, 'The land that you are entering, to take
possession of it, is a land impure with the impurity of the peoples of the lands, with their abominations that have
filled it from end to end with their uncleanness.
Ezr 9:12 Therefore do not give your daughters to their sons, neither take their daughters for your sons, and
never seek their peace or prosperity, that you may be strong and eat the good of the land and leave it for an
inheritance to your children forever.'
Ezr 9:13 And after all that has come upon us for our evil deeds and for our great guilt, seeing that you, our God,
have punished us less than our iniquities deserved and have given us such a remnant as this,
Ezr 9:14 shall we break your commandments again and intermarry with the peoples who practice these
abominations? Would you not be angry with us until you consumed us, so that there should be no remnant, nor
any to escape?
Ezr 9:15 O LORD the God of Israel, you are just, for we are left a remnant that has escaped, as it is today.
Behold, we are before you in our guilt, for none can stand before you because of this."
Ezr 10:1 While Ezra prayed and made confession, weeping and casting himself down before the house of God,
a very great assembly of men, women, and children, gathered to him out of Israel, for the people wept bitterly.
Ezr 10:2 And Shecaniah the son of Jehiel, of the sons of Elam, addressed Ezra: "We have broken faith with our
God and have married foreign women from the peoples of the land, but even now there is hope for Israel in spite
of this.
Ezr 10:3 Therefore let us make a covenant with our God to put away all these wives and their children,
according to the counsel of my lord and of those who tremble at the commandment of our God, and let it be
done according to the Law.
Ezr 10:4 Arise, for it is your task, and we are with you; be strong and do it."
Ezr 10:5 Then Ezra arose and made the leading priests and Levites and all Israel take oath that they would do
as had been said. So they took the oath.
Ezr 10:6 Then Ezra withdrew from before the house of God and went to the chamber of Jehohanan the son of
Eliashib, where he spent the night, neither eating bread nor drinking water, for he was mourning over the
faithlessness of the exiles.
Ezr 10:7 And a proclamation was made throughout Judah and Jerusalem to all the returned exiles that they
should assemble at Jerusalem,
Ezr 10:8 and that if anyone did not come within three days, by order of the officials and the elders all his
property should be forfeited, and he himself banned from the congregation of the exiles.
Ezr 10:9 Then all the men of Judah and Benjamin assembled at Jerusalem within the three days. It was the
ninth month, on the twentieth day of the month. And all the people sat in the open square before the house of
God, trembling because of this matter and because of the heavy rain.
Ezr 10:10 And Ezra the priest stood up and said to them, "You have broken faith and married foreign women,
and so increased the guilt of Israel.
Ezr 10:11 Now then make confession to the LORD, the God of your fathers and do his will. Separate yourselves
from the peoples of the land and from the foreign wives."
Ezr 10:12 Then all the assembly answered with a loud voice, "It is so; we must do as you have said.
Ezr 10:13 But the people are many, and it is a time of heavy rain; we cannot stand in the open. Nor is this a task
for one day or for two, for we have greatly transgressed in this matter.
Ezr 10:14 Let our officials stand for the whole assembly. Let all in our cities who have taken foreign wives come
at appointed times, and with them the elders and judges of every city, until the fierce wrath of our God over this
matter is turned away from us."
Ezr 10:15 Only Jonathan the son of Asahel and Jahzeiah the son of Tikvah opposed this, and Meshullam and
Shabbethai the Levite supported them.Ezr 10:16 Then the returned exiles did so. Ezra the priest selected men, heads of fathers' houses, according to
their fathers' houses, each of them designated by name. On the first day of the tenth month they sat down to
examine the matter;
Ezr 10:17 and by the first day of the first month they had come to the end of all the men who had married
foreign women.
Ezr 10:18 Now there were found some of the sons of the priests who had married foreign women: Maaseiah,
Eliezer, Jarib, and Gedaliah, some of the sons of Jeshua the son of Jozadak and his brothers.
Ezr 10:19 They pledged themselves to put away their wives, and their guilt offering was a ram of the flock for
their guilt.
Ezr 10:20 Of the sons of Immer: Hanani and Zebadiah.
Ezr 10:21 Of the sons of Harim: Maaseiah, Elijah, Shemaiah, Jehiel, and Uzziah.
Ezr 10:22 Of the sons of Pashhur: Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethanel, Jozabad, and Elasah.
Ezr 10:23 Of the Levites: Jozabad, Shimei, Kelaiah (that is, Kelita), Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer.
Ezr 10:24 Of the singers: Eliashib. Of the gatekeepers: Shallum, Telem, and Uri.
Ezr 10:25 And of Israel: of the sons of Parosh: Ramiah, Izziah, Malchijah, Mijamin, Eleazar, Hashabiah, and
Benaiah.
Ezr 10:26 Of the sons of Elam: Mattaniah, Zechariah, Jehiel, Abdi, Jeremoth, and Elijah.
Ezr 10:27 Of the sons of Zattu: Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, Jeremoth, Zabad, and Aziza.
Ezr 10:28 Of the sons of Bebai were Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, and Athlai.
Ezr 10:29 Of the sons of Bani were Meshullam, Malluch, Adaiah, Jashub, Sheal, and Jeremoth.
Ezr 10:30 Of the sons of Pahath-moab: Adna, Chelal, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezalel, Binnui, and
Manasseh.
Ezr 10:31 Of the sons of Harim: Eliezer, Isshijah, Malchijah, Shemaiah, Shimeon,
Ezr 10:32 Benjamin, Malluch, and Shemariah.
Ezr 10:33 Of the sons of Hashum: Mattenai, Mattattah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh, and Shimei.
Ezr 10:34 Of the sons of Bani: Maadai, Amram, Uel,
Ezr 10:35 Benaiah, Bedeiah, Cheluhi,
Ezr 10:36 Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib,
Ezr 10:37 Mattaniah, Mattenai, Jaasu.
Ezr 10:38 Of the sons of Binnui: Shimei,
Ezr 10:39 Shelemiah, Nathan, Adaiah,
Ezr 10:40 Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai,
Ezr 10:41 Azarel, Shelemiah, Shemariah,
Ezr 10:42 Shallum, Amariah, and Joseph.
Ezr 10:43 Of the sons of Nebo: Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jaddai, Joel, and Benaiah.
Ezr 10:44 All these had married foreign women, and some of the women had even borne children.
Neh 1:1 The words of Nehemiah the son of Hacaliah. Now it happened in the month of Chislev, in the twentieth
year, as I was in Susa the capital,
Neh 1:2 that Hanani, one of my brothers, came with certain men from Judah. And I asked them concerning the
Jews who escaped, who had survived the exile, and concerning Jerusalem.
Neh 1:3 And they said to me, "The remnant there in the province who had survived the exile is in great trouble
and shame. The wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and its gates are destroyed by fire."
Neh 1:4 As soon as I heard these words I sat down and wept and mourned for days, and I continued fasting and
praying before the God of heaven.
Neh 1:5 And I said, "O LORD God of heaven, the great and awesome God who keeps covenant and steadfast
love with those who love him and keep his commandments,
Neh 1:6 let your ear be attentive and your eyes open, to hear the prayer of your servant that I now pray before
you day and night for the people of Israel your servants, confessing the sins of the people of Israel, which we
have sinned against you. Even I and my father's house have sinned.
Neh 1:7 We have acted very corruptly against you and have not kept the commandments, the statutes, and the
rules that you commanded your servant Moses.
Neh 1:8 Remember the word that you commanded your servant Moses, saying, 'If you are unfaithful, I will
scatter you among the peoples,
Neh 1:9 but if you return to me and keep my commandments and do them, though your dispersed be under the
farthest skies, I will gather them from there and bring them to the place that I have chosen, to make my name
dwell there.'
Neh 1:10 They are your servants and your people, whom you have redeemed by your great power and by your
strong hand.
Neh 1:11 O Lord, let your ear be attentive to the prayer of your servant, and to the prayer of your servants whodelight to fear your name, and give success to your servant today, and grant him mercy in the sight of this man."
Now I was cupbearer to the king.
Neh 2:1 In the month of Nisan, in the twentieth year of King Artaxerxes, when wine was before him, I took up
the wine and gave it to the king. Now I had not been sad in his presence.
Neh 2:2 And the king said to me, "Why is your face sad, seeing you are not sick? This is nothing but sadness of
the heart." Then I was very much afraid.
Neh 2:3 I said to the king, "Let the king live forever! Why should not my face be sad, when the city, the place of
my fathers' graves, lies in ruins, and its gates have been destroyed by fire?"
Neh 2:4 Then the king said to me, "What are you requesting?" So I prayed to the God of heaven.
Neh 2:5 And I said to the king, "If it pleases the king, and if your servant has found favor in your sight, that you
send me to Judah, to the city of my fathers' graves, that I may rebuild it."
Neh 2:6 And the king said to me ( the queen sitting beside him), "How long will you be gone, and when will you
return?" So it pleased the king to send me when I had given him a time.
Neh 2:7 And I said to the king, "If it pleases the king, let letters be given me to the governors of the province
Beyond the River, that they may let me pass through until I come to Judah,
Neh 2:8 and a letter to Asaph, the keeper of the king's forest, that he may give me timber to make beams for the
gates of the fortress of the temple, and for the wall of the city, and for the house that I shall occupy." And the king
granted me what I asked, for the good hand of my God was upon me.
Neh 2:9 Then I came to the governors of the province Beyond the River and gave them the king's letters. Now
the king had sent with me officers of the army and horsemen.
Neh 2:10 But when Sanballat the Horonite and Tobiah, the Ammonite servant, heard this, it displeased them
greatly that someone had come to seek the welfare of the people of Israel.
Neh 2:11 So I went to Jerusalem and was there three days.
Neh 2:12 Then I arose in the night, I and a few men with me. And I told no one what my God had put into my
heart to do for Jerusalem. There was no animal with me but the one on which I rode.
Neh 2:13 I went out by night by the Valley Gate to the Dragon Spring and to the Dung Gate, and I inspected the
walls of Jerusalem that were broken down and its gates that had been destroyed by fire.
Neh 2:14 Then I went on to the Fountain Gate and to the King's Pool, but there was no room for the animal that
was under me to pass.
Neh 2:15 Then I went up in the night by the valley and inspected the wall, and I turned back and entered by the
Valley Gate, and so returned.
Neh 2:16 And the officials did not know where I had gone or what I was doing, and I had not yet told the Jews,
the priests, the nobles, the officials, and the rest who were to do the work.
Neh 2:17 Then I said to them, "You see the trouble we are in, how Jerusalem lies in ruins with its gates burned.
Come, let us build the wall of Jerusalem, that we may no longer suffer derision."
Neh 2:18 And I told them of the hand of my God that had been upon me for good, and also of the words that the
king had spoken to me. And they said, "Let us rise up and build." So they strengthened their hands for the good
work.
Neh 2:19 But when Sanballat the Horonite and Tobiah the Ammonite servant and Geshem the Arab heard of it,
they jeered at us and despised us and said, "What is this thing that you are doing? Are you rebelling against the
king?"
Neh 2:20 Then I replied to them, "The God of heaven will make us prosper, and we his servants will arise and
build, but you have no portion or right or claim in Jerusalem."
Neh 3:1 Then Eliashib the high priest rose up with his brothers the priests, and they built the Sheep Gate. They
consecrated it and set its doors. They consecrated it as far as the Tower of the Hundred, as far as the Tower of
Hananel.
Neh 3:2 And next to him the men of Jericho built. And next to them Zaccur the son of Imri built.
Neh 3:3 The sons of Hassenaah built the Fish Gate. They laid its beams and set its doors, its bolts, and its bars.
Neh 3:4 And next to them Meremoth the son of Uriah, son of Hakkoz repaired. And next to them Meshullam the
son of Berechiah, son of Meshezabel repaired. And next to them Zadok the son of Baana repaired.
Neh 3:5 And next to them the Tekoites repaired, but their nobles would not stoop to serve their Lord.
Neh 3:6 Joiada the son of Paseah and Meshullam the son of Besodeiah repaired the Gate of Yeshanah. They
laid its beams and set its doors, its bolts, and its bars.
Neh 3:7 And next to them repaired Melatiah the Gibeonite and Jadon the Meronothite, the men of Gibeon and of
Mizpah, the seat of the governor of the province Beyond the River.
Neh 3:8 Next to them Uzziel the son of Harhaiah, goldsmiths, repaired. Next to him Hananiah, one of the
perfumers, repaired, and they restored Jerusalem as far as the Broad Wall.
Neh 3:9 Next to them Rephaiah the son of Hur, ruler of half the district of Jerusalem, repaired.
Neh 3:10 Next to them Jedaiah the son of Harumaph repaired opposite his house. And next to him Hattush theson of Hashabneiah repaired.
Neh 3:11 Malchijah the son of Harim and Hasshub the son of Pahath-moab repaired another section and the
Tower of the Ovens.
Neh 3:12 Next to him Shallum the son of Hallohesh, ruler of half the district of Jerusalem, repaired, he and his
daughters.
Neh 3:13 Hanun and the inhabitants of Zanoah repaired the Valley Gate. They rebuilt it and set its doors, its
bolts, and its bars, and repaired a thousand cubits of the wall, as far as the Dung Gate.
Neh 3:14 Malchijah the son of Rechab, ruler of the district of Beth-haccherem, repaired the Dung Gate. He
rebuilt it and set its doors, its bolts, and its bars.
Neh 3:15 And Shallum the son of Col-hozeh, ruler of the district of Mizpah, repaired the Fountain Gate. He
rebuilt it and covered it and set its doors, its bolts, and its bars. And he built the wall of the Pool of Shelah of the
king's garden, as far as the stairs that go down from the City of David.
Neh 3:16 After him Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, ruler of half the district of Beth-zur, repaired to a point opposite
the tombs of David, as far as the artificial pool, and as far as the house of the mighty men.
Neh 3:17 After him the Levites repaired: Rehum the son of Bani. Next to him Hashabiah, ruler of half the district
of Keilah, repaired for his district.
Neh 3:18 After him their brothers repaired: Bavvai the son of Henadad, ruler of half the district of Keilah.
Neh 3:19 Next to him Ezer the son of Jeshua, ruler of Mizpah, repaired another section opposite the ascent to
the armory at the buttress.
Neh 3:20 After him Baruch the son of Zabbai repaired another section from the buttress to the door of the house
of Eliashib the high priest.
Neh 3:21 After him Meremoth the son of Uriah, son of Hakkoz repaired another section from the door of the
house of Eliashib to the end of the house of Eliashib.
Neh 3:22 After him the priests, the men of the surrounding area, repaired.
Neh 3:23 After them Benjamin and Hasshub repaired opposite their house. After them Azariah the son of
Maaseiah, son of Ananiah repaired beside his own house.
Neh 3:24 After him Binnui the son of Henadad repaired another section, from the house of Azariah to the
buttress
Neh 3:25 and to the corner. Palal the son of Uzai repaired opposite the buttress and the tower projecting from
the upper house of the king at the court of the guard. After him Pedaiah the son of Parosh
Neh 3:26 and the temple servants living on Ophel repaired to a point opposite the Water Gate on the east and
the projecting tower.
Neh 3:27 After him the Tekoites repaired another section opposite the great projecting tower as far as the wall
of Ophel.
Neh 3:28 Above the Horse Gate the priests repaired, each one opposite his own house.
Neh 3:29 After them Zadok the son of Immer repaired opposite his own house. After him Shemaiah the son of
Shecaniah, the keeper of the East Gate, repaired.
Neh 3:30 After him Hananiah the son of Shelemiah and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph repaired another section.
After him Meshullam the son of Berechiah repaired opposite his chamber.
Neh 3:31 After him Malchijah, one of the goldsmiths, repaired as far as the house of the temple servants and of
the merchants, opposite the Muster Gate, and to the upper chamber of the corner.
Neh 3:32 And between the upper chamber of the corner and the Sheep Gate the goldsmiths and the merchants
repaired.
Neh 4:1 Now when Sanballat heard that we were building the wall, he was angry and greatly enraged, and he
jeered at the Jews.
Neh 4:2 And he said in the presence of his brothers and of the army of Samaria, "What are these feeble Jews
doing? Will they restore it for themselves? Will they sacrifice? Will they finish up in a day? Will they revive the
stones out of the heaps of rubbish, and burned ones at that?"
Neh 4:3 Tobiah the Ammonite was beside him, and he said, "Yes, what they are building- if a fox goes up on it
he will break down their stone wall!"
Neh 4:4 Hear, O our God, for we are despised. Turn back their taunt on their own heads and give them up to be
plundered in a land where they are captives.
Neh 4:5 Do not cover their guilt, and let not their sin be blotted out from your sight, for they have provoked you
to anger in the presence of the builders.
Neh 4:6 So we built the wall. And all the wall was joined together to half its height, for the people had a mind to
work.
Neh 4:7 But when Sanballat and Tobiah and the Arabs and the Ammonites and the Ashdodites heard that the
repairing of the walls of Jerusalem was going forward and that the breaches were beginning to be closed, they
were very angry.Neh 4:8 And they all plotted together to come and fight against Jerusalem and to cause confusion in it.
Neh 4:9 And we prayed to our God and set a guard as a protection against them day and night.
Neh 4:10 In Judah it was said, "The strength of those who bear the burdens is failing. There is too much rubble.
By ourselves we will not be able to rebuild the wall."
Neh 4:11 And our enemies said, "They will not know or see till we come among them and kill them and stop the
work."
Neh 4:12 At that time the Jews who lived near them came from all directions and said to us ten times, "You
must return to us."
Neh 4:13 So in the lowest parts of the space behind the wall, in open places, I stationed the people by their
clans, with their swords, their spears, and their bows.
Neh 4:14 And I looked and arose and said to the nobles and to the officials and to the rest of the people, "Do
not be afraid of them. Remember the Lord, who is great and awesome, and fight for your brothers, your sons,
your daughters, your wives, and your homes."
Neh 4:15 When our enemies heard that it was known to us and that God had frustrated their plan, we all
returned to the wall, each to his work.
Neh 4:16 From that day on, half of my servants worked on construction, and half held the spears, shields, bows,
and coats of mail. And the leaders stood behind the whole house of Judah,
Neh 4:17 who were building on the wall. Those who carried burdens were loaded in such a way that each
labored on the work with one hand and held his weapon with the other.
Neh 4:18 And each of the builders had his sword strapped at his side while he built. The man who sounded the
trumpet was beside me.
Neh 4:19 And I said to the nobles and to the officials and to the rest of the people, "The work is great and widely
spread, and we are separated on the wall, far from one another.
Neh 4:20 In the place where you hear the sound of the trumpet, rally to us there. Our God will fight for us."
Neh 4:21 So we labored at the work, and half of them held the spears from the break of dawn until the stars
came out.
Neh 4:22 I also said to the people at that time, "Let every man and his servant pass the night within Jerusalem,
that they may be a guard for us by night and may labor by day."
Neh 4:23 So neither I nor my brothers nor my servants nor the men of the guard who followed me, none of us
took off our clothes; each kept his weapon at his right hand.
Neh 5:1 Now there arose a great outcry of the people and of their wives against their Jewish brothers.
Neh 5:2 For there were those who said, "With our sons and our daughters, we are many. So let us get grain,
that we may eat and keep alive."
Neh 5:3 There were also those who said, "We are mortgaging our fields, our vineyards, and our houses to get
grain because of the famine."
Neh 5:4 And there were those who said, "We have borrowed money for the king's tax on our fields and our
vineyards.
Neh 5:5 Now our flesh is as the flesh of our brothers, our children are as their children. Yet we are forcing our
sons and our daughters to be slaves, and some of our daughters have already been enslaved, but it is not in our
power to help it, for other men have our fields and our vineyards."
Neh 5:6 I was very angry when I heard their outcry and these words.
Neh 5:7 I took counsel with myself, and I brought charges against the nobles and the officials. I said to them,
"You are exacting interest, each from his brother." And I held a great assembly against them
Neh 5:8 and said to them, "We, as far as we are able, have bought back our Jewish brothers who have been
sold to the nations, but you even sell your brothers that they may be sold to us!" They were silent and could not
find a word to say.
Neh 5:9 So I said, "The thing that you are doing is not good. Ought you not to walk in the fear of our God to
prevent the taunts of the nations our enemies?
Neh 5:10 Moreover, I and my brothers and my servants are lending them money and grain. Let us abandon this
exacting of interest.
Neh 5:11 Return to them this very day their fields, their vineyards, their olive orchards, and their houses, and the
percentage of money, grain, wine, and oil that you have been exacting from them."
Neh 5:12 Then they said, "We will restore these and require nothing from them. We will do as you say." And I
called the priests and made them swear to do as they had promised.
Neh 5:13 I also shook out the fold of my garment and said, "So may God shake out every man from his house
and from his labor who does not keep this promise. So may he be shaken out and emptied." And all the
assembly said "Amen" and praised the LORD. And the people did as they had promised.
Neh 5:14 Moreover, from the time that I was appointed to be their governor in the land of Judah, from the
twentieth year to the thirty-second year of Artaxerxes the king, twelve years, neither I nor my brothers ate thefood allowance of the governor.
Neh 5:15 The former governors who were before me laid heavy burdens on the people and took from them for
their daily ration forty shekels of silver. Even their servants lorded it over the people. But I did not do so, because
of the fear of God.
Neh 5:16 I also persevered in the work on this wall, and we acquired no land, and all my servants were
gathered there for the work.
Neh 5:17 Moreover, there were at my table 150 men, Jews and officials, besides those who came to us from the
nations that were around us.
Neh 5:18 Now what was prepared at my expense for each day was one ox and six choice sheep and birds, and
every ten days all kinds of wine in abundance. Yet for all this I did not demand the food allowance of the
governor, because the service was too heavy on this people.
Neh 5:19 Remember for my good, O my God, all that I have done for this people.
Neh 6:1 Now when Sanballat and Tobiah and Geshem the Arab and the rest of our enemies heard that I had
built the wall and that there was no breach left in it ( although up to that time I had not set up the doors in the
gates),
Neh 6:2 Sanballat and Geshem sent to me, saying, "Come and let us meet together at Hakkephirim in the plain
of Ono." But they intended to do me harm.
Neh 6:3 And I sent messengers to them, saying, "I am doing a great work and I cannot come down. Why should
the work stop while I leave it and come down to you?"
Neh 6:4 And they sent to me four times in this way, and I answered them in the same manner.
Neh 6:5 In the same way Sanballat for the fifth time sent his servant to me with an open letter in his hand.
Neh 6:6 In it was written, "It is reported among the nations, and Geshem also says it, that you and the Jews
intend to rebel; that is why you are building the wall. And according to these reports you wish to become their
king.
Neh 6:7 And you have also set up prophets to proclaim concerning you in Jerusalem, 'There is a king in Judah.'
And now the king will hear of these reports. So now come and let us take counsel together."
Neh 6:8 Then I sent to him, saying, "No such things as you say have been done, for you are inventing them out
of your own mind."
Neh 6:9 For they all wanted to frighten us, thinking, "Their hands will drop from the work, and it will not be
done." But now, O God, strengthen my hands.
Neh 6:10 Now when I went into the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah, son of Mehetabel, who was confined
to his home, he said, "Let us meet together in the house of God, within the temple. Let us close the doors of the
temple, for they are coming to kill you. They are coming to kill you by night."
Neh 6:11 But I said, "Should such a man as I run away? And what man such as I could go into the temple and
live? I will not go in."
Neh 6:12 And I understood and saw that God had not sent him, but he had pronounced the prophecy against
me because Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him.
Neh 6:13 For this purpose he was hired, that I should be afraid and act in this way and sin, and so they could
give me a bad name in order to taunt me.
Neh 6:14 Remember Tobiah and Sanballat, O my God, according to these things that they did, and also the
prophetess No-adiah and the rest of the prophets who wanted to make me afraid.
Neh 6:15 So the wall was finished on the twenty-fifth day of the month Elul, in fifty-two days.
Neh 6:16 And when all our enemies heard of it, all the nations around us were afraid and fell greatly in their own
esteem, for they perceived that this work had been accomplished with the help of our God.
Neh 6:17 Moreover, in those days the nobles of Judah sent many letters to Tobiah, and Tobiah's letters came to
them.
Neh 6:18 For many in Judah were bound by oath to him, because he was the son-in-law of Shecaniah the son
of Arah: and his son Jehohanan had taken the daughter of Meshullam the son of Berechiah as his wife.
Neh 6:19 Also they spoke of his good deeds in my presence and reported my words to him. And Tobiah sent
letters to make me afraid.
Neh 7:1 Now when the wall had been built and I had set up the doors, and the gatekeepers, the singers, and the
Levites had been appointed,
Neh 7:2 I gave my brother Hanani and Hananiah the governor of the castle charge over Jerusalem, for he was a
more faithful and God-fearing man than many.
Neh 7:3 And I said to them, "Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun is hot. And while they are
still standing guard, let them shut and bar the doors. Appoint guards from among the inhabitants of Jerusalem,
some at their guard posts and some in front of their own homes."
Neh 7:4 The city was wide and large, but the people within it were few, and no houses had been rebuilt.
Neh 7:5 Then my God put it into my heart to assemble the nobles and the officials and the people to be enrolledby genealogy. And I found the book of the genealogy of those who came up at the first, and I found written in it:
Neh 7:6 These were the people of the province who came up out of the captivity of those exiles whom
Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried into exile. They returned to Jerusalem and Judah, each to his
town.
Neh 7:7 They came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan,
Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:
Neh 7:8 the sons of Parosh, 2,172.
Neh 7:9 The sons of Shephatiah, 372.
Neh 7:10 The sons of Arah, 652.
Neh 7:11 The sons of Pahath-moab, namely the sons of Jeshua and Joab, 2,818.
Neh 7:12 The sons of Elam, 1,254.
Neh 7:13 The sons of Zattu, 845.
Neh 7:14 The sons of Zaccai, 760.
Neh 7:15 The sons of Binnui, 648.
Neh 7:16 The sons of Bebai, 628.
Neh 7:17 The sons of Azgad, 2,322.
Neh 7:18 The sons of Adonikam, 667.
Neh 7:19 The sons of Bigvai, 2,067.
Neh 7:20 The sons of Adin, 655.
Neh 7:21 The sons of Ater, namely of Hezekiah, 98.
Neh 7:22 The sons of Hashum, 328.
Neh 7:23 The sons of Bezai, 324.
Neh 7:24 The sons of Hariph, 112.
Neh 7:25 The sons of Gibeon, 95.
Neh 7:26 The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, 188.
Neh 7:27 The men of Anathoth, 128.
Neh 7:28 The men of Beth-azmaveth, 42.
Neh 7:29 The men of Kiriath-jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, 743.
Neh 7:30 The men of Ramah and Geba, 621.
Neh 7:31 The men of Michmas, 122.
Neh 7:32 The men of Bethel and Ai, 123.
Neh 7:33 The men of the other Nebo, 52.
Neh 7:34 The sons of the other Elam, 1,254.
Neh 7:35 The sons of Harim, 320.
Neh 7:36 The sons of Jericho, 345.
Neh 7:37 The sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, 721.
Neh 7:38 The sons of Senaah, 3,930.
Neh 7:39 The priests: the sons of Jedaiah, namely the house of Jeshua, 973.
Neh 7:40 The sons of Immer, 1,052.
Neh 7:41 The sons of Pashhur, 1,247.
Neh 7:42 The sons of Harim, 1,017.
Neh 7:43 The Levites: the sons of Jeshua, namely of Kadmiel of the sons of Hodevah, 74.
Neh 7:44 The singers: the sons of Asaph, 148.
Neh 7:45 The gatekeepers: the sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of Akkub, the
sons of Hatita, the sons of Shobai, 138.
Neh 7:46 The temple servants: the sons of Ziha, the sons of Hasupha, the sons of Tabbaoth,
Neh 7:47 the sons of Keros, the sons of Sia, the sons of Padon,
Neh 7:48 the sons of Lebana, the sons of Hagaba, the sons of Shalmai,
Neh 7:49 the sons of Hanan, the sons of Giddel, the sons of Gahar,
Neh 7:50 the sons of Reaiah, the sons of Rezin, the sons of Nekoda,
Neh 7:51 the sons of Gazzam, the sons of Uzza, the sons of Paseah,
Neh 7:52 the sons of Besai, the sons of Meunim, the sons of Nephushesim,
Neh 7:53 the sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Harhur,
Neh 7:54 the sons of Bazlith, the sons of Mehida, the sons of Harsha,
Neh 7:55 the sons of Barkos, the sons of Sisera, the sons of Temah,
Neh 7:56 the sons of Neziah, the sons of Hatipha.
Neh 7:57 The sons of Solomon's servants: the sons of Sotai, the sons of Sophereth, the sons of Perida,
Neh 7:58 the sons of Jaala, the sons of Darkon, the sons of Giddel,
Neh 7:59 the sons of Shephatiah, the sons of Hattil, the sons of Pochereth-hazzebaim, the sons of Amon.Neh 7:60 All the temple servants and the sons of Solomon's servants were 392.
Neh 7:61 The following were those who came up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer, but
they could not prove their fathers' houses nor their descent, whether they belonged to Israel:
Neh 7:62 the sons of Delaiah, the sons of Tobiah, the sons of Nekoda, 642.
Neh 7:63 Also, of the priests: the sons of Hobaiah, the sons of Hakkoz, the sons of Barzillai (who had taken a
wife of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite and was called by their name).
Neh 7:64 These sought their registration among those enrolled in the genealogies, but it was not found there, so
they were excluded from the priesthood as unclean.
Neh 7:65 The governor told them that they were not to partake of the most holy food until a priest with Urim and
Thummim should arise.
Neh 7:66 The whole assembly together was 42,360,
Neh 7:67 besides their male and female servants, of whom there were 7,337. And they had 245 singers, male
and female.
Neh 7:68 Their horses were 736, their mules 245,
Neh 7:69 their camels 435, and their donkeys 6,720.
Neh 7:70 Now some of the heads of fathers' houses gave to the work. The governor gave to the treasury 1,000
darics of gold, 50 basins, 30 priests' garments and 500 minas of silver.
Neh 7:71 And some of the heads of fathers' houses gave into the treasury of the work 20,000 darics of gold and
2,200 minas of silver.
Neh 7:72 And what the rest of the people gave was 20,000 darics of gold, 2,000 minas of silver, and 67 priests'
garments.
Neh 7:73 So the priests, the Levites, the gatekeepers, the singers, some of the people, the temple servants, and
all Israel, lived in their towns. And when the seventh month had come, the people of Israel were in their towns.
Neh 8:1 And all the people gathered as one man into the square before the Water Gate. And they told Ezra the
scribe to bring the Book of the Law of Moses that the LORD had commanded Israel.
Neh 8:2 So Ezra the priest brought the Law before the assembly, both men and women and all who could
understand what they heard, on the first day of the seventh month.
Neh 8:3 And he read from it facing the square before the Water Gate from early morning until midday, in the
presence of the men and the women and those who could understand. And the ears of all the people were
attentive to the Book of the Law.
Neh 8:4 And Ezra the scribe stood on a wooden platform that they had made for the purpose. And beside him
stood Mattithiah, Shema, Anaiah, Uriah, Hilkiah, and Maaseiah on his right hand, and Pedaiah, Mishael,
Malchijah, Hashum, Hashbaddanah, Zechariah, and Meshullam on his left hand.
Neh 8:5 And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people, for he was above all the people, and as he
opened it all the people stood.
Neh 8:6 And Ezra blessed the LORD, the great God, and all the people answered, "Amen, Amen," lifting up
their hands. And they bowed their heads and worshiped the LORD with their faces to the ground.
Neh 8:7 Also Jeshua, Bani, Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodiah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad,
Hanan, Pelaiah, the Levites, helped the people to understand the Law, while the people remained in their places.
Neh 8:8 They read from the book, from the Law of God, clearly, and they gave the sense, so that the people
understood the reading.
Neh 8:9 And Nehemiah, who was the governor, and Ezra the priest and scribe, and the Levites who taught the
people said to all the people, "This day is holy to the LORD your God; do not mourn or weep." For all the people
wept as they heard the words of the Law.
Neh 8:10 Then he said to them, "Go your way. Eat the fat and drink sweet wine and send portions to anyone
who has nothing ready, for this day is holy to our Lord. And do not be grieved, for the joy of the LORD is your
strength."
Neh 8:11 So the Levites calmed all the people, saying, "Be quiet, for this day is holy; do not be grieved."
Neh 8:12 And all the people went their way to eat and drink and to send portions and to make great rejoicing,
because they had understood the words that were declared to them.
Neh 8:13 On the second day the heads of fathers' houses of all the people, with the priests and the Levites,
came together to Ezra the scribe in order to study the words of the Law.
Neh 8:14 And they found it written in the Law that the LORD had commanded by Moses that the people of Israel
should dwell in booths during the feast of the seventh month,
Neh 8:15 and that they should proclaim it and publish it in all their towns and in Jerusalem, "Go out to the hills
and bring branches of olive, wild olive, myrtle, palm, and other leafy trees to make booths, as it is written."
Neh 8:16 So the people went out and brought them and made booths for themselves, each on his roof, and in
their courts and in the courts of the house of God, and in the square at the Water Gate and in the square at the
Gate of Ephraim.Neh 8:17 And all the assembly of those who had returned from the captivity made booths and lived in the
booths, for from the days of Jeshua the son of Nun to that day the people of Israel had not done so. And there
was very great rejoicing.
Neh 8:18 And day by day, from the first day to the last day, he read from the Book of the Law of God. They kept
the feast seven days, and on the eighth day there was a solemn assembly, according to the rule.
Neh 9:1 Now on the twenty-fourth day of this month the people of Israel were assembled with fasting and in
sackcloth, and with earth on their heads.
Neh 9:2 And the Israelites separated themselves from all foreigners and stood and confessed their sins and the
iniquities of their fathers.
Neh 9:3 And they stood up in their place and read from the Book of the Law of the LORD their God for a quarter
of the day; for another quarter of it they made confession and worshiped the LORD their God.
Neh 9:4 On the stairs of the Levites stood Jeshua, Bani, Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, and
Chenani; and they cried with a loud voice to the LORD their God.
Neh 9:5 Then the Levites, Jeshua, Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabneiah, Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah,
said, "Stand up and bless the LORD your God from everlasting to everlasting. Blessed be your glorious name,
which is exalted above all blessing and praise.
Neh 9:6 "You are the LORD, you alone. You have made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their host, the
earth and all that is on it, the seas and all that is in them; and you preserve all of them; and the host of heaven
worships you.
Neh 9:7 You are the LORD, the God who chose Abram and brought him out of Ur of the Chaldeans and gave
him the name Abraham.
Neh 9:8 You found his heart faithful before you, and made with him the covenant to give to his offspring the land
of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Perizzite, the Jebusite, and the Girgashite. And you have kept your
promise, for you are righteous.
Neh 9:9 "And you saw the affliction of our fathers in Egypt and heard their cry at the Red Sea,
Neh 9:10 and performed signs and wonders against Pharaoh and all his servants and all the people of his land,
for you knew that they acted arrogantly against our fathers. And you made a name for yourself, as it is to this
day.
Neh 9:11 And you divided the sea before them, so that they went through the midst of the sea on dry land, and
you cast their pursuers into the depths, as a stone into mighty waters.
Neh 9:12 By a pillar of cloud you led them in the day, and by a pillar of fire in the night to light for them the way
in which they should go.
Neh 9:13 You came down on Mount Sinai and spoke with them from heaven and gave them right rules and true
laws, good statutes and commandments,
Neh 9:14 and you made known to them your holy Sabbath and commanded them commandments and statutes
and a law by Moses your servant.
Neh 9:15 You gave them bread from heaven for their hunger and brought water for them out of the rock for their
thirst, and you told them to go in to possess the land that you had sworn to give them.
Neh 9:16 "But they and our fathers acted presumptuously and stiffened their neck and did not obey your
commandments.
Neh 9:17 They refused to obey and were not mindful of the wonders that you performed among them, but they
stiffened their neck and appointed a leader to return to their slavery in Egypt. But you are a God ready to forgive,
gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love, and did not forsake them.
Neh 9:18 Even when they had made for themselves a golden calf and said, 'This is your God who brought you
up out of Egypt,' and had committed great blasphemies,
Neh 9:19 you in your great mercies did not forsake them in the wilderness. The pillar of cloud to lead them in the
way did not depart from them by day, nor the pillar of fire by night to light for them the way by which they should
go.
Neh 9:20 You gave your good Spirit to instruct them and did not withhold your manna from their mouth and
gave them water for their thirst.
Neh 9:21 Forty years you sustained them in the wilderness, and they lacked nothing. Their clothes did not wear
out and their feet did not swell.
Neh 9:22 "And you gave them kingdoms and peoples and allotted to them every corner. So they took
possession of the land of Sihon king of Heshbon and the land of Og king of Bashan.
Neh 9:23 You multiplied their children as the stars of heaven, and you brought them into the land that you had
told their fathers to enter and possess.
Neh 9:24 So the descendants went in and possessed the land, and you subdued before them the inhabitants of
the land, the Canaanites, and gave them into their hand, with their kings and the peoples of the land, that they
might do with them as they would.Neh 9:25 And they captured fortified cities and a rich land, and took possession of houses full of all good things,
cisterns already hewn, vineyards, olive orchards and fruit trees in abundance. So they ate and were filled and
became fat and delighted themselves in your great goodness.
Neh 9:26 "Nevertheless, they were disobedient and rebelled against you and cast your law behind their back
and killed your prophets, who had warned them in order to turn them back to you, and they committed great
blasphemies.
Neh 9:27 Therefore you gave them into the hand of their enemies, who made them suffer. And in the time of
their suffering they cried out to you and you heard them from heaven, and according to your great mercies you
gave them saviors who saved them from the hand of their enemies.
Neh 9:28 But after they had rest they did evil again before you, and you abandoned them to the hand of their
enemies, so that they had dominion over them. Yet when they turned and cried to you, you heard from heaven,
and many times you delivered them according to your mercies.
Neh 9:29 And you warned them in order to turn them back to your law. Yet they acted presumptuously and did
not obey your commandments, but sinned against your rules, which if a person does them, he shall live by them,
and turned a stubborn shoulder and stiffened their neck and would not obey.
Neh 9:30 Many years you bore with them and warned them by your Spirit through your prophets. Yet they would
not give ear. Therefore you gave them into the hand of the peoples of the lands.
Neh 9:31 Nevertheless, in your great mercies you did not make an end of them or forsake them, for you are a
gracious and merciful God.
Neh 9:32 "Now, therefore, our God, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who keeps covenant and
steadfast love, let not all the hardship seem little to you that has come upon us, upon our kings, our princes, our
priests, our prophets, our fathers, and all your people, since the time of the kings of Assyria until this day.
Neh 9:33 Yet you have been righteous in all that has come upon us, for you have dealt faithfully and we have
acted wickedly.
Neh 9:34 Our kings, our princes, our priests, and our fathers have not kept your law or paid attention to your
commandments and your warnings that you gave them.
Neh 9:35 Even in their own kingdom, enjoying your great goodness that you gave them, and in the large and
rich land that you set before them, they did not serve you or turn from their wicked works.
Neh 9:36 Behold, we are slaves this day; in the land that you gave to our fathers to enjoy its fruit and its good
gifts, behold, we are slaves.
Neh 9:37 And its rich yield goes to the kings whom you have set over us because of our sins. They rule over our
bodies and over our livestock as they please, and we are in great distress.
Neh 9:38 "Because of all this we make a firm covenant in writing; on the sealed document are the names of our
princes, our Levites, and our priests."
Neh 10:1 On the seals are the names of Nehemiah the governor, the son of Hacaliah, Zedekiah,
Neh 10:2 Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah,
Neh 10:3 Pashhur, Amariah, Malchijah,
Neh 10:4 Hattush, Shebaniah, Mal-luch,
Neh 10:5 Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah,
Neh 10:6 Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch,
Neh 10:7 Meshul-lam, Abijah, Mijamin,
Neh 10:8 Maaziah, Bilgai, Shemaiah; these are the priests.
Neh 10:9 And the Levites: Jeshua the son of Azaniah, Binnui of the sons of Henadad, Kadmiel;
Neh 10:10 and their brothers, Sheb-aniah, Hodiah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan,
Neh 10:11 Mica, Rehob, Hashabiah,
Neh 10:12 Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah,
Neh 10:13 Hodiah, Bani, Beninu.
Neh 10:14 The chiefs of the people: Parosh, Pahath-moab, Elam, Zattu, Bani,
Neh 10:15 Bunni, Azgad, Bebai,
Neh 10:16 Adoni-jah, Bigvai, Adin,
Neh 10:17 Ater, Hezekiah, Azzur,
Neh 10:18 Hodiah, Hashum, Bezai,
Neh 10:19 Hariph, Anathoth, Nebai,
Neh 10:20 Magpiash, Meshul lam, Hezir,
Neh 10:21 Meshezabel, Za-dok, Jaddua,
Neh 10:22 Pelatiah, Hanan, Anai-ah,
Neh 10:23 Hoshea, Hananiah, Hasshub,
Neh 10:24 Hallohesh, Pilha, Shobek,
Neh 10:25 Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah,Neh 10:26 Ahiah, Hanan, Anan,
Neh 10:27 Malluch, Harim, Baanah.
Neh 10:28 The rest of the people, the priests, the Levites, the gatekeepers, the singers, the temple servants,
and all who have separated themselves from the peoples of the lands to the Law of God, their wives, their sons,
their daughters, all who have knowledge and understanding,
Neh 10:29 join with their brothers, their nobles, and enter into a curse and an oath to walk in God's Law that
was given by Moses the servant of God, and to observe and do all the commandments of the LORD our Lord
and his rules and his statutes.
Neh 10:30 "We will not give our daughters to the peoples of the land or take their daughters for our sons.
Neh 10:31 And if the peoples of the land bring in goods or any grain on the Sabbath day to sell, we will not buy
from them on the Sabbath or on a holy day. And we will forego the crops of the seventh year and the exaction of
every debt.
Neh 10:32 "We also take on ourselves the obligation to give yearly a third part of a shekel for the service of the
house of our God:
Neh 10:33 for the showbread, the regular grain offering, the regular burnt offering, the Sabbaths, the new
moons, the appointed feasts, the holy things, and the sin offerings to make atonement for Israel, and for all the
work of the house of our God.
Neh 10:34 We, the priests, the Levites, and the people, have likewise cast lots for the wood offering, to bring it
into the house of our God, according to our fathers' houses, at times appointed, year by year, to burn on the altar
of the LORD our God, as it is written in the Law.
Neh 10:35 We obligate ourselves to bring the firstfruits of our ground and the firstfruits of all fruit of every tree,
year by year, to the house of the LORD;
Neh 10:36 also to bring to the house of our God, to the priests who minister in the house of our God, the
firstborn of our sons and of our cattle, as it is written in the Law, and the firstborn of our herds and of our flocks;
Neh 10:37 and to bring the first of our dough, and our contributions, the fruit of every tree, the wine and the oil,
to the priests, to the chambers of the house of our God; and to bring to the Levites the tithes from our ground, for
it is the Levites who collect the tithes in all our towns where we labor.
Neh 10:38 And the priest, the son of Aaron, shall be with the Levites when the Levites receive the tithes. And
the Levites shall bring up the tithe of the tithes to the house of our God, to the chambers of the storehouse.
Neh 10:39 For the people of Israel and the sons of Levi shall bring the contribution of grain, wine, and oil to the
chambers, where the vessels of the sanctuary are, as well as the priests who minister, and the gatekeepers and
the singers. We will not neglect the house of our God."
Neh 11:1 Now the leaders of the people lived in Jerusalem. And the rest of the people cast lots to bring one out
of ten to live in Jerusalem the holy city, while nine out of ten remained in the other towns.
Neh 11:2 And the people blessed all the men who willingly offered to live in Jerusalem.
Neh 11:3 These are the chiefs of the province who lived in Jerusalem; but in the towns of Judah everyone lived
on his property in their towns: Israel, the priests, the Levites, the temple servants, and the descendants of Solomon's servants.
Neh 11:4 And in Jerusalem lived certain of the sons of Judah and of the sons of Benjamin. Of the sons of
Judah: Athaiah the son of Uzziah, son of Zechariah, son of Amariah, son of Shephatiah, son of Mahalalel, of the
sons of Perez;
Neh 11:5 and Maaseiah the son of Baruch, son of Col-hozeh, son of Hazaiah, son of Adaiah, son of Joiarib, son
of Zechariah, son of the Shilonite.
Neh 11:6 All the sons of Perez who lived in Jerusalem were 468 valiant men.
Neh 11:7 And these are the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, son of Joed, son of Pedaiah, son of
Kolaiah, son of Maaseiah, son of Ithiel, son of Jeshaiah,
Neh 11:8 and his brothers, men of valor, 928.
Neh 11:9 Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer; and Judah the son of Hassenuah was second over the city.
Neh 11:10 Of the priests: Jedaiah the son of Joiarib, Jachin,
Neh 11:11 Seraiah the son of Hilkiah, son of Meshullam, son of Zadok, son of Meraioth, son of Ahitub, ruler of
the house of God,
Neh 11:12 and their brothers who did the work of the house, 822; and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, son of
Pelaliah, son of Amzi, son of Zechariah, son of Pashhur, son of Malchijah,
Neh 11:13 and his brothers, heads of fathers' houses, 242; and Amashsai, the son of Azarel, son of Ahzai, son
of Meshillemoth, son of Immer,
Neh 11:14 and their brothers, mighty men of valor, 128; their overseer was Zabdiel the son of Haggedolim.
Neh 11:15 And of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, son of Azrikam, son of Hashabiah, son of Bunni;
Neh 11:16 and Shabbethai and Jozabad, of the chiefs of the Levites, who were over the outside work of the
house of God;Neh 11:17 and Mattaniah the son of Mica, son of Zabdi, son of Asaph, who was the leader of the praise, who
gave thanks, and Bakbukiah, the second among his brothers; and Abda the son of Shammua, son of Galal, son
of Je-duthun.
Neh 11:18 All the Levites in the holy city were 284.
Neh 11:19 The gatekeepers, Akkub, Talmon and their brothers, who kept watch at the gates, were 172.
Neh 11:20 And the rest of Israel, and of the priests and the Levites, were in all the towns of Judah, every one in
his inheritance.
Neh 11:21 But the temple servants lived on Ophel; and Ziha and Gishpa were over the temple servants.
Neh 11:22 The overseer of the Levites in Jerusalem was Uzzi the son of Bani, son of Hashabiah, son of
Mattaniah, son of Mica, of the sons of Asaph, the singers, over the work of the house of God.
Neh 11:23 For there was a command from the king concerning them, and a fixed provision for the singers, as
every day required.
Neh 11:24 And Pethahiah the son of Meshezabel, of the sons of Zerah the son of Judah, was at the king's side
in all matters concerning the people.
Neh 11:25 And as for the villages, with their fields, some of the people of Judah lived in Kiriath-arba and its
villages, and in Dibon and its villages, and in Jekabzeel and its villages,
Neh 11:26 and in Jeshua and in Moladah and Beth-pelet,
Neh 11:27 in Hazar-shual, in Beersheba and its villages,
Neh 11:28 in Ziklag, in Meconah and its villages,
Neh 11:29 in En-rimmon, in Zorah, in Jarmuth,
Neh 11:30 Zanoah, Adullam, and their villages, Lachish and its fields, and Azekah and its villages. So they
encamped from Beersheba to the valley of Hinnom.
Neh 11:31 The people of Benjamin also lived from Geba onward, at Michmash, Aija, Bethel and its villages,
Neh 11:32 Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah,
Neh 11:33 Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,
Neh 11:34 Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat,
Neh 11:35 Lod, and Ono, the valley of craftsmen.
Neh 11:36 And certain divisions of the Levites in Judah were assigned to Benjamin.
Neh 12:1 These are the priests and the Levites who came up with Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua:
Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra,
Neh 12:2 Amariah, Malluch, Hattush,
Neh 12:3 Sheca-niah, Rehum, Meremoth,
Neh 12:4 Iddo, Gin-nethoi, Abijah,
Neh 12:5 Mijamin, Maadiah, Bilgah,
Neh 12:6 Shemaiah, Joiarib, Jedaiah,
Neh 12:7 Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, Jedaiah. These were the chiefs of the priests and of their brothers in the days of
Jeshua.
Neh 12:8 And the Levites: Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah, and Mattaniah, who with his brothers
was in charge of the songs of thanksgiving.
Neh 12:9 And Bakbukiah and Unni and their brothers stood opposite them in the service.
Neh 12:10 And Jeshua was the father of Joiakim, Joiakim the father of Eliashib, Eliashib the father of Joiada,
Neh 12:11 Joiada the father of Jonathan, and Jonathan the father of Jaddua.
Neh 12:12 And in the days of Joiakim were priests, heads of fathers' houses: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah,
Hananiah;
Neh 12:13 of Ezra, Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan;
Neh 12:14 of Malluchi, Jonathan; of Shebaniah, Joseph;
Neh 12:15 of Harim, Adna; of Meraioth, Helkai;
Neh 12:16 of Iddo, Zechariah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam;
Neh 12:17 of Abijah, Zichri; of Miniamin, of Moadiah, Piltai;
Neh 12:18 of Bilgah, Shammua; of Shemaiah, Jehonathan;
Neh 12:19 of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi;
Neh 12:20 of Sallai, Kallai; of Amok, Eber;
Neh 12:21 of Hilkiah, Hashabiah; of Jedaiah, Nethanel.
Neh 12:22 In the days of Eliashib, Joiada, Johanan, and Jaddua, the Levites were recorded as heads of fathers'
houses; so too were the priests in the reign of Darius the Persian.
Neh 12:23 As for the sons of Levi, their heads of fathers' houses were written in the Book of the Chronicles until
the days of Johanan the son of Eliashib.
Neh 12:24 And the chiefs of the Levites: Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Jeshua the son of Kadmiel, with their
brothers who stood opposite them, to praise and to give thanks, according to the commandment of David theman of God, watch by watch.
Neh 12:25 Mattaniah, Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, and Akkub were gatekeepers standing guard
at the storehouses of the gates.
Neh 12:26 These were in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah
the governor and of Ezra, the priest and scribe.
Neh 12:27 And at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought the Levites in all their places, to bring
them to Jerusalem to celebrate the dedication with gladness, with thanksgivings and with singing, with cymbals,
harps, and lyres.
Neh 12:28 And the sons of the singers gathered together from the district surrounding Jerusalem and from the
villages of the Netophathites;
Neh 12:29 also from Beth-gilgal and from the region of Geba and Azmaveth, for the singers had built for
themselves villages around Jerusalem.
Neh 12:30 And the priests and the Levites purified themselves, and they purified the people and the gates and
the wall.
Neh 12:31 Then I brought the leaders of Judah up onto the wall and appointed two great choirs that gave
thanks. One went to the south on the wall to the Dung Gate.
Neh 12:32 And after them went Hoshaiah and half of the leaders of Judah,
Neh 12:33 and Azariah, Ezra, Meshullam,
Neh 12:34 Judah, Benjamin, She-maiah, and Jeremiah,
Neh 12:35 and certain of the priests' sons with trumpets: Zechariah the son of Jonathan, son of Shemaiah, son
of Mattaniah, son of Micaiah, son of Zaccur, son of Asaph;
Neh 12:36 and his relatives, Shemaiah, Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, Judah, and Hanani, with the
musical instruments of David the man of God. And Ezra the scribe went before them.
Neh 12:37 At the Fountain Gate they went up straight before them by the stairs of the city of David, at the
ascent of the wall, above the house of David, to the Water Gate on the east.
Neh 12:38 The other choir of those who gave thanks went to the north, and I followed them with half of the
people, on the wall, above the Tower of the Ovens, to the Broad Wall,
Neh 12:39 and above the Gate of Ephraim, and by the Gate of Yeshanah, and by the Fish Gate and the Tower
of Hananel and the Tower of the Hundred, to the Sheep Gate; and they came to a halt at the Gate of the Guard.
Neh 12:40 So both choirs of those who gave thanks stood in the house of God, and I and half of the officials
with me;
Neh 12:41 and the priests Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah, and Hananiah, with
trumpets;
Neh 12:42 and Maaseiah, Shemaiah, Eleazar, Uzzi, Jehohanan, Malchijah, Elam, and Ezer. And the singers
sang with Jezrahiah as their leader.
Neh 12:43 And they offered great sacrifices that day and rejoiced, for God had made them rejoice with great joy;
the women and children also rejoiced. And the joy of Jerusalem was heard far away.
Neh 12:44 On that day men were appointed over the storerooms, the contributions, the firstfruits, and the tithes,
to gather into them the portions required by the Law for the priests and for the Levites according to the fields of
the towns, for Judah rejoiced over the priests and the Levites who ministered.
Neh 12:45 And they performed the service of their God and the service of purification, as did the singers and the
gatekeepers, according to the command of David and his son Solomon.
Neh 12:46 For long ago in the days of David and Asaph there were directors of the singers, and there were
songs of praise and thanksgiving to God.
Neh 12:47 And all Israel in the days of Zerubbabel and in the days of Nehemiah gave the daily portions for the
singers and the gatekeepers; and they set apart that which was for the Levites; and the Levites set apart that
which was for the sons of Aaron.
Neh 13:1 On that day they read from the Book of Moses in the hearing of the people. And in it was found written
that no Ammonite or Moabite should ever enter the assembly of God,
Neh 13:2 for they did not meet the people of Israel with bread and water, but hired Balaam against them to
curse them- yet our God turned the curse into a blessing.
Neh 13:3 As soon as the people heard the law, they separated from Israel all those of foreign descent.
Neh 13:4 Now before this, Eliashib the priest, who was appointed over the chambers of the house of our God,
and who was related to Tobiah,
Neh 13:5 prepared for Tobiah a large chamber where they had previously put the grain offering, the
frankincense, the vessels, and the tithes of grain, wine, and oil, which were given by commandment to the
Levites, singers, and gatekeepers, and the contributions for the priests.
Neh 13:6 While this was taking place, I was not in Jerusalem, for in the thirty-second year of Artaxerxes king of
Babylon I went to the king. And after some time I asked leave of the kingNeh 13:7 and came to Jerusalem, and I then discovered the evil that Eliashib had done for Tobiah, preparing for
him a chamber in the courts of the house of God.
Neh 13:8 And I was very angry, and I threw all the household furniture of Tobiah out of the chamber.
Neh 13:9 Then I gave orders, and they cleansed the chambers, and I brought back there the vessels of the
house of God, with the grain offering and the frankincense.
Neh 13:10 I also found out that the portions of the Levites had not been given to them, so that the Levites and
the singers, who did the work, had fled each to his field.
Neh 13:11 So I confronted the officials and said, "Why is the house of God forsaken?" And I gathered them
together and set them in their stations.
Neh 13:12 Then all Judah brought the tithe of the grain, wine, and oil into the storehouses.
Neh 13:13 And I appointed as treasurers over the storehouses Shelemiah the priest, Zadok the scribe, and
Pedaiah of the Levites, and as their assistant Hanan the son of Zaccur, son of Mattaniah, for they were
considered reliable, and their duty was to distribute to their brothers.
Neh 13:14 Remember me, O my God, concerning this, and do not wipe out my good deeds that I have done for
the house of my God and for his service.
Neh 13:15 In those days I saw in Judah people treading winepresses on the Sabbath, and bringing in heaps of
grain and loading them on donkeys, and also wine, grapes, figs, and all kinds of loads, which they brought into
Jerusalem on the Sabbath day. And I warned them on the day when they sold food.
Neh 13:16 Tyrians also, who lived in the city, brought in fish and all kinds of goods and sold them on the
Sabbath to the people of Judah, in Jerusalem itself!
Neh 13:17 Then I confronted the nobles of Judah and said to them, "What is this evil thing that you are doing,
profaning the Sabbath day?
Neh 13:18 Did not your fathers act in this way, and did not our God bring all this disaster on us and on this city?
Now you are bringing more wrath on Israel by profaning the Sabbath."
Neh 13:19 As soon as it began to grow dark at the gates of Jerusalem before the Sabbath, I commanded that
the doors should be shut and gave orders that they should not be opened until after the Sabbath. And I stationed
some of my servants at the gates, that no load might be brought in on the Sabbath day.
Neh 13:20 Then the merchants and sellers of all kinds of wares lodged outside Jerusalem once or twice.
Neh 13:21 But I warned them and said to them, "Why do you lodge outside the wall? If you do so again, I will lay
hands on you." From that time on they did not come on the Sabbath.
Neh 13:22 Then I commanded the Levites that they should purify themselves and come and guard the gates, to
keep the Sabbath day holy. Remember this also in my favor, O my God, and spare me according to the
greatness of your steadfast love.
Neh 13:23 In those days also I saw the Jews who had married women of Ashdod, Ammon, and Moab.
Neh 13:24 And half of their children spoke the language of Ashdod, and they could not speak the language of
Judah, but the language of each people.
Neh 13:25 And I confronted them and cursed them and beat some of them and pulled out their hair. And I made
them take oath in the name of God, saying, "You shall not give your daughters to their sons, or take their
daughters for your sons or for yourselves.
Neh 13:26 Did not Solomon king of Israel sin on account of such women? Among the many nations there was
no king like him, and he was beloved by his God, and God made him king over all Israel. Nevertheless, foreign
women made even him to sin.
Neh 13:27 Shall we then listen to you and do all this great evil and act treacherously against our God by
marrying foreign women?"
Neh 13:28 And one of the sons of Jehoiada, the son of Eliashib the high priest, was the son-in-law of Sanballat
the Horonite. Therefore I chased him from me.
Neh 13:29 Remember them, O my God, because they have desecrated the priesthood and the covenant of the
priesthood and the Levites.
Neh 13:30 Thus I cleansed them from everything foreign, and I established the duties of the priests and Levites,
each in his work;
Neh 13:31 and I provided for the wood offering at appointed times, and for the firstfruits. Remember me, O my
God, for good.
Est 1:1 Now in the days of Ahasuerus, the Ahasuerus who reigned from India to Ethiopia over 127 provinces,
Est 1:2 in those days when King Ahasuerus sat on his royal throne in Susa, the capital,
Est 1:3 in the third year of his reign he gave a feast for all his officials and servants. The army of Persia and
Media and the nobles and governors of the provinces were before him,
Est 1:4 while he showed the riches of his royal glory and the splendor and pomp of his greatness for many days,
180 days.
Est 1:5 And when these days were completed, the king gave for all the people present in Susa, the citadel, bothgreat and small, a feast lasting for seven days in the court of the garden of the king's palace.
Est 1:6 There were white cotton curtains and violet hangings fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to
silver rods and marble pillars, and also couches of gold and silver on a mosaic pavement of porphyry, marble,
mother-of-pearl and precious stones.
Est 1:7 Drinks were served in golden vessels, vessels of different kinds, and the royal wine was lavished
according to the bounty of the king.
Est 1:8 And drinking was according to this edict: "There is no compulsion." For the king had given orders to all
the staff of his palace to do as each man desired.
Est 1:9 Queen Vashti also gave a feast for the women in the palace that belonged to King Ahasuerus.
Est 1:10 On the seventh day, when the heart of the king was merry with wine, he commanded Mehuman,
Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha and Abagtha, Zethar and Carkas, the seven eunuchs who served in the presence of
King Ahasu-erus,
Est 1:11 to bring Queen Vashti before the king with her royal crown, in order to show the peoples and the
princes her beauty, for she was lovely to look at.
Est 1:12 But Queen Vashti refused to come at the king's command delivered by the eunuchs. At this the king
became enraged, and his anger burned within him.
Est 1:13 Then the king said to the wise men who knew the times (for this was the king's procedure toward all
who were versed in law and judgment,
Est 1:14 the men next to him being Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena, and Memucan,
the seven princes of Persia and Media, who saw the king's face, and sat first in the kingdom):
Est 1:15 "According to the law, what is to be done to Queen Vashti, because she has not performed the
command of King Ahasuerus delivered by the eunuchs?"
Est 1:16 Then Memucan said in the presence of the king and the officials, "Not only against the king has Queen
Vashti done wrong, but also against all the officials and all the peoples who are in all the provinces of King
Ahasuerus.
Est 1:17 For the queen's behavior will be made known to all women, causing them to look at their husbands
with contempt, since they will say, 'King Ahasuerus commanded Queen Vashti to be brought before him, and
she did not come.'
Est 1:18 This very day the noble women of Persia and Media who have heard of the queen's behavior will say
the same to all the king's officials, and there will be contempt and wrath in plenty.
Est 1:19 If it please the king, let a royal order go out from him, and let it be written among the laws of the
Persians and the Medes so that it may not be repealed, that Vashti is never again to come before King
Ahasuerus. And let the king give her royal position to another who is better than she.
Est 1:20 So when the decree made by the king is proclaimed throughout all his kingdom, for it is vast, all women
will give honor to their husbands, high and low alike."
Est 1:21 This advice pleased the king and the princes, and the king did as Memucan proposed.
Est 1:22 He sent letters to all the royal provinces, to every province in its own script and to every people in its
own language, that every man be master in his own household and speak according to the language of his
people.
Est 2:1 After these things, when the anger of King Ahasuerus had abated, he remembered Vashti and what she
had done and what had been decreed against her.
Est 2:2 Then the king's young men who attended him said, "Let beautiful young virgins be sought out for the
king.
Est 2:3 And let the king appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom to gather all the beautiful young
virgins to the harem in Susa the capital, under custody of Hegai, the king's eunuch, who is in charge of the
women. Let their cosmetics be given them.
Est 2:4 And let the young woman who pleases the king be queen instead of Vashti." This pleased the king, and
he did so.
Est 2:5 Now there was a Jew in Susa the citadel whose name was Mordecai, the son of Jair, son of Shimei, son
of Kish, a Benjaminite,
Est 2:6 who had been carried away from Jerusalem among the captives carried away with Jeconiah king of
Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had carried away.
Est 2:7 He was bringing up Hadassah, that is Esther, the daughter of his uncle, for she had neither father nor
mother. The young woman had a beautiful figure and was lovely to look at, and when her father and her mother
died, Mordecai took her as his own daughter.
Est 2:8 So when the king's order and his edict were proclaimed, and when many young women were gathered
in Susa the citadel in custody of Hegai, Esther also was taken into the king's palace and put in custody of Hegai,
who had charge of the women.
Est 2:9 And the young woman pleased him and won his favor. And he quickly provided her with her cosmeticsand her portion of food, and with seven chosen young women from the king's palace, and advanced her and her
young women to the best place in the harem.
Est 2:10 Esther had not made known her people or kindred, for Mordecai had commanded her not to make it
known.
Est 2:11 And every day Mordecai walked in front of the court of the harem to learn how Esther was and what
was happening to her.
Est 2:12 Now when the turn came for each young woman to go in to King Ahasu-erus, after being twelve
months under the regulations for the women, since this was the regular period of their beautifying, six months
with oil of myrrh and six months with spices and ointments for womenEst 2:13 when the young woman went in to the king in this way, she was given whatever she desired to take
with her from the harem to the king's palace.
Est 2:14 In the evening she would go in, and in the morning she would return to the second harem in custody of
Shaashgaz, the king's eunuch, who was in charge of the concubines. She would not go in to the king again,
unless the king delighted in her and she was summoned by name.
Est 2:15 When the turn came for Esther the daughter of Abihail the uncle of Mordecai, who had taken her as his
own daughter, to go in to the king, she asked for nothing except what Hegai the king's eunuch, who had charge
of the women, advised. Now Esther was winning favor in the eyes of all who saw her.
Est 2:16 And when Esther was taken to King Ahasuerus into his royal palace in the tenth month, which is the
month of Tebeth, in the seventh year of his reign,
Est 2:17 the king loved Esther more than all the women, and she won grace and favor in his sight more than all
the virgins, so that he set the royal crown on her head and made her queen instead of Vashti.
Est 2:18 Then the king gave a great feast for all his officials and servants; it was Esther's feast. He also granted
a remission of taxes to the provinces and gave gifts with royal generosity.
Est 2:19 Now when the virgins were gathered together the second time, Mordecai was sitting at the king's gate.
Est 2:20 Esther had not made known her kindred or her people, as Mordecai had commanded her, for Esther
obeyed Mordecai just as when she was brought up by him.
Est 2:21 In those days, as Mordecai was sitting at the king's gate, Bigthan and Teresh, two of the king's
eunuchs, who guarded the threshold, became angry and sought to lay hands on King Ahasuerus.
Est 2:22 And this came to the knowledge of Mordecai, and he told it to Queen Esther, and Esther told the king in
the name of Mordecai.
Est 2:23 When the affair was investigated and found to be so, the men were both hanged on the gallows. And it
was recorded in the book of the chronicles in the presence of the king.
Est 3:1 After these things King Ahasuerus promoted Haman the Agagite, the son of Hammedatha, and
advanced him and set his throne above all the officials who were with him.
Est 3:2 And all the king's servants who were at the king's gate bowed down and paid homage to Haman, for the
king had so commanded concerning him. But Mordecai did not bow down or pay homage.
Est 3:3 Then the king's servants who were at the king's gate said to Mordecai, "Why do you transgress the
king's command?"
Est 3:4 And when they spoke to him day after day and he would not listen to them, they told Haman, in order to
see whether Mordecai's words would stand, for he had told them that he was a Jew.
Est 3:5 And when Haman saw that Mordecai did not bow down or pay homage to him, Haman was filled with
fury.
Est 3:6 But he disdained to lay hands on Mordecai alone. So, as they had made known to him the people of
Mordecai, Haman sought to destroy all the Jews, the people of Mordecai, throughout the whole kingdom of
Ahasuerus.
Est 3:7 In the first month, which is the month of Nisan, in the twelfth year of King Ahasuerus, they cast Pur (that
is, they cast lots) before Haman day after day; and they cast it month after month till the twelfth month, which is
the month of Adar.
Est 3:8 Then Haman said to King Ahasuerus, "There is a certain people scattered abroad and dispersed among
the peoples in all the provinces of your kingdom. Their laws are different from those of every other people, and
they do not keep the king's laws, so that it is not to the king's profit to tolerate them.
Est 3:9 If it please the king, let it be decreed that they be destroyed, and I will pay 10,000 talents of silver into
the hands of those who have charge of the king's business, that they may put it into the king's treasuries."
Est 3:10 So the king took his signet ring from his hand and gave it to Haman the Agagite, the son of
Hammedatha, the enemy of the Jews.
Est 3:11 And the king said to Haman, "The money is given to you, the people also, to do with them as it seems
good to you."
Est 3:12 Then the king's scribes were summoned on the thirteenth day of the first month, and an edict,
according to all that Haman commanded, was written to the king's satraps and to the governors over all theprovinces and to the officials of all the peoples, to every province in its own script and every people in its own
language. It was written in the name of King Ahasuerus and sealed with the king's signet ring.
Est 3:13 Letters were sent by couriers to all the king's provinces with instruction to destroy, to kill, and to
annihilate all Jews, young and old, women and children, in one day, the thirteenth day of the twelfth month,
which is the month of Adar, and to plunder their goods.
Est 3:14 A copy of the document was to be issued as a decree in every province by proclamation to all the
peoples to be ready for that day.
Est 3:15 The couriers went out hurriedly by order of the king, and the decree was issued in Susa the citadel.
And the king and Haman sat down to drink, but the city of Susa was thrown into confusion.
Est 4:1 When Mordecai learned all that had been done, Mordecai tore his clothes and put on sackcloth and
ashes, and went out into the midst of the city, and he cried out with a loud and bitter cry.
Est 4:2 He went up to the entrance of the king's gate, for no one was allowed to enter the king's gate clothed in
sackcloth.
Est 4:3 And in every province, wherever the king's command and his decree reached, there was great mourning
among the Jews, with fasting and weeping and lamenting, and many of them lay in sackcloth and ashes.
Est 4:4 When Esther's young women and her eunuchs came and told her, the queen was deeply distressed.
She sent garments to clothe Mordecai, so that he might take off his sackcloth, but he would not accept them.
Est 4:5 Then Esther called for Hathach, one of the king's eunuchs, who had been appointed to attend her, and
ordered him to go to Mordecai to learn what this was and why it was.
Est 4:6 Hathach went out to Mordecai in the open square of the city in front of the king's gate,
Est 4:7 and Mordecai told him all that had happened to him, and the exact sum of money that Haman had
promised to pay into the king's treasuries for the destruction of the Jews.
Est 4:8 Mordecai also gave him a copy of the written decree issued in Susa for their destruction, that he might
show it to Esther and explain it to her and command her to go to the king to beg his favor and plead with him on
behalf of her people.
Est 4:9 And Hathach went and told Esther what Mordecai had said.
Est 4:10 Then Esther spoke to Hathach and commanded him to go to Mordecai and say,
Est 4:11 "All the king's servants and the people of the king's provinces know that if any man or woman goes to
the king inside the inner court without being called, there is but one law- to be put to death, except the one to
whom the king holds out the golden scepter so that he may live. But as for me, I have not been called to come in
to the king these thirty days."
Est 4:12 And they told Mordecai what Esther had said.
Est 4:13 Then Mordecai told them to reply to Esther, "Do not think to yourself that in the king's palace you will
escape any more than all the other Jews.
Est 4:14 For if you keep silent at this time, relief and deliverance will rise for the Jews from another place, but
you and your father's house will perish. And who knows whether you have not come to the kingdom for such a
time as this?"
Est 4:15 Then Esther told them to reply to Mordecai,
Est 4:16 "Go, gather all the Jews to be found in Susa, and hold a fast on my behalf, and do not eat or drink for
three days, night or day. I and my young women will also fast as you do. Then I will go to the king, though it is
against the law, and if I perish, I perish."
Est 4:17 Mordecai then went away and did everything as Esther had ordered him.
Est 5:1 On the third day Esther put on her royal robes and stood in the inner court of the king's palace, in front
of the king's quarters, while the king was sitting on his royal throne inside the throne room opposite the entrance
to the palace.
Est 5:2 And when the king saw Queen Esther standing in the court, she won favor in his sight, and he held out
to Esther the golden scepter that was in his hand. Then Esther approached and touched the tip of the scepter.
Est 5:3 And the king said to her, "What is it, Queen Esther? What is your request? It shall be given you, even to
the half of my kingdom."
Est 5:4 And Esther said, "If it please the king, let the king and Haman come today to a feast that I have prepared
for the king."
Est 5:5 Then the king said, "Bring Haman quickly, so that we may do as Esther has asked." So the king and
Haman came to the feast that Esther had prepared.
Est 5:6 And as they were drinking wine after the feast, the king said to Esther, "What is your wish? It shall be
granted you. And what is your request? Even to the half of my kingdom, it shall be fulfilled."
Est 5:7 Then Esther answered, "My wish and my request is:
Est 5:8 If I have found favor in the sight of the king, and if it please the king to grant my wish and fulfill my
request, let the king and Haman come to the feast that I will prepare for them, and tomorrow I will do as the king
has said."Est 5:9 And Haman went out that day joyful and glad of heart. But when Haman saw Mordecai in the king's
gate, that he neither rose nor trembled before him, he was filled with wrath against Mordecai.
Est 5:10 Nevertheless, Haman restrained himself and went home, and he sent and brought his friends and his
wife Zeresh.
Est 5:11 And Haman recounted to them the splendor of his riches, the number of his sons, all the promotions
with which the king had honored him, and how he had advanced him above the officials and the servants of the
king.
Est 5:12 Then Haman said, "Even Queen Esther let no one but me come with the king to the feast she
prepared. And tomorrow also I am invited by her together with the king.
Est 5:13 Yet all this is worth nothing to me, so long as I see Mordecai the Jew sitting at the king's gate."
Est 5:14 Then his wife Zeresh and all his friends said to him, "Let a gallows fifty cubits high be made, and in the
morning tell the king to have Mordecai hanged upon it. Then go joyfully with the king to the feast." This idea
pleased Haman, and he had the gallows made.
Est 6:1 On that night the king could not sleep. And he gave orders to bring the book of memorable deeds, the
chronicles, and they were read before the king.
Est 6:2 And it was found written how Mordecai had told about Bigthana and Teresh, two of the king's eunuchs,
who guarded the threshold, and who had sought to lay hands on King Ahasu-erus.
Est 6:3 And the king said, "What honor or distinction has been bestowed on Mordecai for this?" The king's
young men who attended him said, "Nothing has been done for him."
Est 6:4 And the king said, "Who is in the court?" Now Haman had just entered the outer court of the king's
palace to speak to the king about having Mordecai hanged on the gallows that he had prepared for him.
Est 6:5 And the king's young men told him, "Haman is there, standing in the court." And the king said, "Let him
come in."
Est 6:6 So Haman came in, and the king said to him, "What should be done to the man whom the king delights
to honor?" And Haman said to himself, "Whom would the king delight to honor more than me?"
Est 6:7 And Haman said to the king, "For the man whom the king delights to honor,
Est 6:8 let royal robes be brought, which the king has worn, and the horse that the king has ridden, and on
whose head a royal crown is set.
Est 6:9 And let the robes and the horse be handed over to one of the king's most noble officials. Let them dress
the man whom the king delights to honor, and let them lead him on the horse through the square of the city,
proclaiming before him: 'Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delights to honor.'"
Est 6:10 Then the king said to Haman, "Hurry; take the robes and the horse, as you have said, and do so to
Mordecai the Jew who sits at the king's gate. Leave out nothing that you have mentioned."
Est 6:11 So Haman took the robes and the horse, and he dressed Mordecai and led him through the square of
the city, proclaiming before him, "Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delights to honor."
Est 6:12 Then Mordecai returned to the king's gate. But Haman hurried to his house, mourning and with his
head covered.
Est 6:13 And Haman told his wife Zeresh and all his friends everything that had happened to him. Then his wise
men and his wife Zeresh said to him, "If Mordecai, before whom you have begun to fall, is of the Jewish people,
you will not overcome him but will surely fall before him."
Est 6:14 While they were yet talking with him, the king's eunuchs arrived and hurried to bring Haman to the
feast that Esther had prepared.
Est 7:1 So the king and Haman went in to feast with Queen Esther.
Est 7:2 And on the second day, as they were drinking wine after the feast, the king again said to Esther, "What
is your wish, Queen Esther? It shall be granted you. And what is your request? Even to the half of my kingdom, it
shall be fulfilled."
Est 7:3 Then Queen Esther answered, "If I have found favor in your sight, O king, and if it please the king, let my
life be granted me for my wish, and my people for my request.
Est 7:4 For we have been sold, I and my people, to be destroyed, to be killed, and to be annihilated. If we had
been sold merely as slaves, men and women, I would have been silent, for our affliction is not to be compared
with the loss to the king."
Est 7:5 Then King Ahasuerus said to Queen Esther, "Who is he, and where is he, who has dared to do this?"
Est 7:6 And Esther said, "A foe and enemy! This wicked Haman!" Then Haman was terrified before the king and
the queen.
Est 7:7 And the king arose in his wrath from the wine-drinking and went into the palace garden, but Haman
stayed to beg for his life from Queen Esther, for he saw that harm was determined against him by the king.
Est 7:8 And the king returned from the palace garden to the place where they were drinking wine, as Haman
was falling on the couch where Esther was. And the king said, "Will he even assault the queen in my presence,
in my own house?" As the word left the mouth of the king, they covered Haman's face.Est 7:9 Then Harbona, one of the eunuchs in attendance on the king, said, "Moreover, the gallows that Haman
has prepared for Mordecai, whose word saved the king, is standing at Haman's house, fifty cubits high."
Est 7:10 And the king said, "Hang him on that." So they hanged Haman on the gallows that he had prepared for
Mordecai. Then the wrath of the king abated.
Est 8:1 On that day King Ahasuerus gave to Queen Esther the house of Haman, the enemy of the Jews. And
Mordecai came before the king, for Esther had told what he was to her.
Est 8:2 And the king took off his signet ring, which he had taken from Haman, and gave it to Mordecai. And
Esther set Mordecai over the house of Haman.
Est 8:3 Then Esther spoke again to the king. She fell at his feet and wept and pleaded with him to avert the evil
plan of Haman the Agagite and the plot that he had devised against the Jews.
Est 8:4 When the king held out the golden scepter to Esther,
Est 8:5 Esther rose and stood before the king. And she said, "If it please the king, and if I have found favor in his
sight, and if the thing seems right before the king, and I am pleasing in his eyes, let an order be written to revoke
the letters devised by Haman the Agagite, the son of Hammedatha, which he wrote to destroy the Jews who are
in all the provinces of the king.
Est 8:6 For how can I bear to see the calamity that is coming to my people? Or how can I bear to see the
destruction of my kindred?"
Est 8:7 Then King Ahasuerus said to Queen Esther and to Mordecai the Jew, "Behold, I have given Esther the
house of Haman, and they have hanged him on the gallows, because he intended to lay hands on the Jews.
Est 8:8 But you may write as you please with regard to the Jews, in the name of the king, and seal it with the
king's ring, for an edict written in the name of the king and sealed with the king's ring cannot be revoked."
Est 8:9 The king's scribes were summoned at that time, in the third month, which is the month of Sivan, on the
twenty-third day. And an edict was written, according to all that Mordecai commanded concerning the Jews, to
the satraps and the governors and the officials of the provinces from India to Ethiopia, 127 provinces, to each
province in its own script and to each people in its own language, and also to the Jews in their script and their
language.
Est 8:10 And he wrote in the name of King Ahasuerus and sealed it with the king's signet ring. Then he sent the
letters by mounted couriers riding on swift horses that were used in the king's service, bred from the royal stud,
Est 8:11 saying that the king allowed the Jews who were in every city to gather and defend their lives, to
destroy, to kill, and to annihilate any armed force of any people or province that might attack them, children and
women included, and to plunder their goods,
Est 8:12 on one day throughout all the provinces of King Ahasuerus, on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month,
which is the month of Adar.
Est 8:13 A copy of what was written was to be issued as a decree in every province, being publicly displayed to
all peoples, and the Jews were to be ready on that day to take vengeance on their enemies.
Est 8:14 So the couriers, mounted on their swift horses that were used in the king's service, rode out hurriedly,
urged by the king's command. And the decree was issued in Susa the citadel.
Est 8:15 Then Mordecai went out from the presence of the king in royal robes of blue and white, with a great
golden crown and a robe of fine linen and purple, and the city of Susa shouted and rejoiced.
Est 8:16 The Jews had light and gladness and joy and honor.
Est 8:17 And in every province and in every city, wherever the king's command and his edict reached, there was
gladness and joy among the Jews, a feast and a holiday. And many from the peoples of the country declared
themselves Jews, for fear of the Jews had fallen on them.
Est 9:1 Now in the twelfth month, which is the month of Adar, on the thirteenth day of the same, when the king's
command and edict were about to be carried out, on the very day when the enemies of the Jews hoped to gain
the mastery over them, the reverse occurred: the Jews gained mastery over those who hated them.
Est 9:2 The Jews gathered in their cities throughout all the provinces of King Ahasuerus to lay hands on those
who sought their harm. And no one could stand against them, for the fear of them had fallen on all peoples.
Est 9:3 All the officials of the provinces and the satraps and the governors and the royal agents also helped the
Jews, for the fear of Mordecai had fallen on them.
Est 9:4 For Mordecai was great in the king's house, and his fame spread throughout all the provinces, for the
man Mordecai grew more and more powerful.
Est 9:5 The Jews struck all their enemies with the sword, killing and destroying them, and did as they pleased to
those who hated them.
Est 9:6 In Susa the citadel itself the Jews killed and destroyed 500 men,
Est 9:7 and also killed Parshandatha and Dalphon and Aspatha
Est 9:8 and Poratha and Adalia and Aridatha
Est 9:9 and Parmashta and Arisai and Aridai and Vaizatha,
Est 9:10 the ten sons of Haman the son of Hammedatha, the enemy of the Jews, but they laid no hand on theplunder.
Est 9:11 That very day the number of those killed in Susa the citadel was reported to the king.
Est 9:12 And the king said to Queen Esther, "In Susa the citadel the Jews have killed and destroyed 500 men
and also the ten sons of Haman. What then have they done in the rest of the king's provinces! Now what is your
wish? It shall be granted you. And what further is your request? It shall be fulfilled."
Est 9:13 And Esther said, "If it please the king, let the Jews who are in Susa be allowed tomorrow also to do
according to this day's edict. And let the ten sons of Haman be hanged on the gallows."
Est 9:14 So the king commanded this to be done. A decree was issued in Susa, and the ten sons of Haman
were hanged.
Est 9:15 The Jews who were in Susa gathered also on the fourteenth day of the month of Adar and they killed
300 men in Susa, but they laid no hands on the plunder.
Est 9:16 Now the rest of the Jews who were in the king's provinces also gathered to defend their lives, and got
relief from their enemies and killed 75,000 of those who hated them, but they laid no hands on the plunder.
Est 9:17 This was on the thirteenth day of the month of Adar, and on the fourteenth day they rested and made
that a day of feasting and gladness.
Est 9:18 But the Jews who were in Susa gathered on the thirteenth day and on the fourteenth, and rested on the
fifteenth day, making that a day of feasting and gladness.
Est 9:19 Therefore the Jews of the villages, who live in the rural towns, hold the fourteenth day of the month of
Adar as a day for gladness and feasting, as a holiday, and as a day on which they send gifts of food to one
another.
Est 9:20 And Mordecai recorded these things and sent letters to all the Jews who were in all the provinces of
King Ahasuerus, both near and far,
Est 9:21 obliging them to keep the fourteenth day of the month Adar and also the fifteenth day of the same, year
by year,
Est 9:22 as the days on which the Jews got relief from their enemies, and as the month that had been turned for
them from sorrow into gladness and from mourning into a holiday; that they should make them days of feasting
and gladness, days for sending gifts of food to one another and gifts to the poor.
Est 9:23 So the Jews accepted what they had started to do, and what Mordecai had written to them.
Est 9:24 For Haman the Agagite, the son of Hammedatha, the enemy of all the Jews, had plotted against the
Jews to destroy them, and had cast Pur (that is, cast lots), to crush and to destroy them.
Est 9:25 But when it came before the king, he gave orders in writing that his evil plan that he had devised
against the Jews should return on his own head, and that he and his sons should be hanged on the gallows.
Est 9:26 Therefore they called these days Purim, after the term Pur. Therefore, because of all that was written in
this letter, and of what they had faced in this matter, and of what had happened to them,
Est 9:27 the Jews firmly obligated themselves and their offspring and all who joined them, that without fail they
would keep these two days according to what was written and at the time appointed every year,
Est 9:28 that these days should be remembered and kept throughout every generation, in every clan, province,
and city, and that these days of Purim should never fall into disuse among the Jews, nor should the
commemoration of these days cease among their descendants.
Est 9:29 Then Queen Esther, the daughter of Abihail, and Mordecai the Jew gave full written authority,
confirming this second letter about Purim.
Est 9:30 Letters were sent to all the Jews, to the 127 provinces of the kingdom of Ahasu-erus, in words of peace
and truth,
Est 9:31 that these days of Purim should be observed at their appointed seasons, as Mordecai the Jew and
Queen Esther obligated them, and as they had obligated themselves and their offspring, with regard to their fasts
and their lamenting.
Est 9:32 The command of Queen Esther confirmed these practices of Purim, and it was recorded in writing.
Est 10:1 King Ahasuerus imposed tax on the land and on the coastlands of the sea.
Est 10:2 And all the acts of his power and might, and the full account of the high honor of Mordecai, to which the
king advanced him, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Media and Persia?
Est 10:3 For Mordecai the Jew was second in rank to King Ahasuerus, and he was great among the Jews and
popular with the multitude of his brothers, for he sought the welfare of his people and spoke peace to all his
people.
Job 1:1 There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job, and that man was blameless and upright, one
who feared God and turned away from evil.
Job 1:2 There were born to him seven sons and three daughters.
Job 1:3 He possessed 7,000 sheep, 3,000 camels, 500 yoke of oxen, and 500 female donkeys, and very many
servants, so that this man was the greatest of all the people of the east.
Job 1:4 His sons used to go and hold a feast in the house of each one on his day, and they would send andinvite their three sisters to eat and drink with them.
Job 1:5 And when the days of the feast had run their course, Job would send and consecrate them, and he
would rise early in the morning and offer burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, "It
may be that my children have sinned, and cursed God in their hearts." Thus Job did continually.
Job 1:6 Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the LORD, and Satan
also came among them.
Job 1:7 The LORD said to Satan, "From where have you come?" Satan answered the LORD and said, "From
going to and fro on the earth, and from walking up and down on it."
Job 1:8 And the LORD said to Satan, "Have you considered my servant Job, that there is none like him on the
earth, a blameless and upright man, who fears God and turns away from evil?"
Job 1:9 Then Satan answered the LORD and said, "Does Job fear God for no reason?
Job 1:10 Have you not put a hedge around him and his house and all that he has, on every side? You have
blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land.
Job 1:11 But stretch out your hand and touch all that he has, and he will curse you to your face."
Job 1:12 And the LORD said to Satan, "Behold, all that he has is in your hand. Only against him do not stretch
out your hand." So Satan went out from the presence of the LORD.
Job 1:13 Now there was a day when his sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in their oldest
brother's house,
Job 1:14 and there came a messenger to Job and said, "The oxen were plowing and the donkeys feeding
beside them,
Job 1:15 and the Sabeans fell upon them and took them and struck down the servants with the edge of the
sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you."
Job 1:16 While he was yet speaking, there came another and said, "The fire of God fell from heaven and burned
up the sheep and the servants and consumed them, and I alone have escaped to tell you."
Job 1:17 While he was yet speaking, there came another and said, "The Chaldeans formed three groups and
made a raid on the camels and took them and struck down the servants with the edge of the sword, and I alone
have escaped to tell you."
Job 1:18 While he was yet speaking, there came another and said, "Your sons and daughters were eating and
drinking wine in their oldest brother's house,
Job 1:19 and behold, a great wind came across the wilderness and struck the four corners of the house, and it
fell upon the young people, and they are dead, and I alone have escaped to tell you."
Job 1:20 Then Job arose and tore his robe and shaved his head and fell on the ground and worshiped.
Job 1:21 And he said, "Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked shall I return. The LORD gave, and
the LORD has taken away; blessed be the name of the LORD."
Job 1:22 In all this Job did not sin or charge God with wrong.
Job 2:1 Again there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the LORD, and Satan
also came among them to present himself before the LORD.
Job 2:2 And the LORD said to Satan, "From where have you come?" Satan answered the LORD and said,
"From going to and fro on the earth, and from walking up and down on it."
Job 2:3 And the LORD said to Satan, "Have you considered my servant Job, that there is none like him on the
earth, a blameless and upright man, who fears God and turns away from evil? He still holds fast his integrity,
although you incited me against him to destroy him without reason."
Job 2:4 Then Satan an swered the LORD and said, "Skin for skin! All that a man has he will give for his life.
Job 2:5 But stretch out your hand and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse you to your face."
Job 2:6 And the LORD said to Satan, "Behold, he is in your hand; only spare his life."
Job 2:7 So Satan went out from the presence of the LORD and struck Job with loathsome sores from the sole of
his foot to the crown of his head.
Job 2:8 And he took a piece of broken pottery with which to scrape himself while he sat in the ashes.
Job 2:9 Then his wife said to him, "Do you still hold fast your integrity? Curse God and die."
Job 2:10 But he said to her, "You speak as one of the foolish women would speak. Shall we receive good from
God, and shall we not receive evil?" In all this Job did not sin with his lips.
Job 2:11 Now when Job's three friends heard of all this evil that had come upon him, they came each from his
own place, Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite. They made an appointment
together to come to show him sympathy and comfort him.
Job 2:12 And when they saw him from a distance, they did not recognize him. And they raised their voices and
wept, and they tore their robes and sprinkled dust on their heads toward heaven.
Job 2:13 And they sat with him on the ground seven days and seven nights, and no one spoke a word to him,
for they saw that his suffering was very great.
Job 3:1 After this Job opened his mouth and cursed the day of his birth.Job 3:2 And Job said:
Job 3:3 "Let the day perish on which I was born, and the night that said, 'A man is conceived.'
Job 3:4 Let that day be darkness! May God above not seek it, nor light shine upon it.
Job 3:5 Let gloom and deep darkness claim it. Let clouds dwell upon it; let the blackness of the day terrify it.
Job 3:6 That night- let thick darkness seize it! Let it not rejoice among the days of the year; let it not come into
the number of the months.
Job 3:7 Behold, let that night be barren; let no joyful cry enter it.
Job 3:8 Let those curse it who curse the day, who are ready to rouse up Leviathan.
Job 3:9 Let the stars of its dawn be dark; let it hope for light, but have none, nor see the eyelids of the morning,
Job 3:10 because it did not shut the doors of my mother's womb, nor hide trouble from my eyes.
Job 3:11 "Why did I not die at birth, come out from the womb and expire?
Job 3:12 Why did the knees receive me? Or why the breasts, that I should nurse?
Job 3:13 For then I would have lain down and been quiet; I would have slept; then I would have been at rest,
Job 3:14 with kings and counselors of the earth who rebuilt ruins for themselves,
Job 3:15 or with princes who had gold, who filled their houses with silver.
Job 3:16 Or why was I not as a hidden stillborn child, as infants who never see the light?
Job 3:17 There the wicked cease from troubling, and there the weary are at rest.
Job 3:18 There the prisoners are at ease together; they hear not the voice of the taskmaster.
Job 3:19 The small and the great are there, and the slave is free from his master.
Job 3:20 "Why is light given to him who is in misery, and life to the bitter in soul,
Job 3:21 who long for death, but it comes not, and dig for it more than for hidden treasures,
Job 3:22 who rejoice exceedingly and are glad when they find the grave?
Job 3:23 Why is light given to a man whose way is hidden, whom God has hedged in?
Job 3:24 For my sighing comes instead of my bread, and my groanings are poured out like water.
Job 3:25 For the thing that I fear comes upon me, and what I dread befalls me.
Job 3:26 I am not at ease, nor am I quiet; I have no rest, but trouble comes."
Job 4:1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite an swered and said:
Job 4:2 "If one ventures a word with you, will you be impatient? Yet who can keep from speaking?
Job 4:3 Behold, you have instructed many, and you have strengthened the weak hands.
Job 4:4 Your words have upheld him who was stumbling, and you have made firm the feeble knees.
Job 4:5 But now it has come to you, and you are impatient; it touches you, and you are dismayed.
Job 4:6 Is not your fear of God your confidence, and the integrity of your ways your hope?
Job 4:7 "Remember: who that was innocent ever perished? Or where were the upright cut off?
Job 4:8 As I have seen, those who plow iniquity and sow trouble reap the same.
Job 4:9 By the breath of God they perish, and by the blast of his anger they are consumed.
Job 4:10 The roar of the lion, the voice of the fierce lion, the teeth of the young lions are broken.
Job 4:11 The strong lion perishes for lack of prey, and the cubs of the lioness are scattered.
Job 4:12 "Now a word was brought to me stealthily; my ear received the whisper of it.
Job 4:13 Amid thoughts from visions of the night, when deep sleep falls on men,
Job 4:14 dread came upon me, and trembling, which made all my bones shake.
Job 4:15 A spirit glided past my face; the hair of my flesh stood up.
Job 4:16 It stood still, but I could not discern its appearance. A form was before my eyes; there was silence,
then I heard a voice:
Job 4:17 'Can mortal man be in the right before God? Can a man be pure before his Maker?
Job 4:18 Even in his servants he puts no trust, and his angels he charges with error;
Job 4:19 how much more those who dwell in houses of clay, whose foundation is in the dust, who are crushed
like the moth.
Job 4:20 Between morning and evening they are beaten to pieces; they perish forever without anyone regarding
it.
Job 4:21 Is not their tent-cord plucked up within them, do they not die, and that without wisdom?'
Job 5:1 "Call now; is there anyone who will answer you? To which of the holy ones will you turn?
Job 5:2 Surely vexation kills the fool, and jealousy slays the simple.
Job 5:3 I have seen the fool taking root, but suddenly I cursed his dwelling.
Job 5:4 His children are far from safety; they are crushed in the gate, and there is no one to deliver them.
Job 5:5 The hungry eat his harvest, and he takes it even out of thorns, and the thirsty pant after his wealth.
Job 5:6 For affliction does not come from the dust, nor does trouble sprout from the ground,
Job 5:7 but man is born to trouble as the sparks fly upward.
Job 5:8 "As for me, I would seek God, and to God would I commit my cause,
Job 5:9 who does great things and unsearchable, marvelous things without number:Job 5:10 he gives rain on the earth and sends waters on the fields;
Job 5:11 he sets on high those who are lowly, and those who mourn are lifted to safety.
Job 5:12 He frustrates the devices of the crafty, so that their hands achieve no success.
Job 5:13 He catches the wise in their own craftiness, and the schemes of the wily are brought to a quick end.
Job 5:14 They meet with darkness in the daytime and grope at noonday as in the night.
Job 5:15 But he saves the needy from the sword of their mouth and from the hand of the mighty.
Job 5:16 So the poor have hope, and injustice shuts her mouth.
Job 5:17 "Behold, blessed is the one whom God reproves; therefore despise not the discipline of the Almighty.
Job 5:18 For he wounds, but he binds up; he shatters, but his hands heal.
Job 5:19 He will deliver you from six troubles; in seven no evil shall touch you.
Job 5:20 In famine he will redeem you from death, and in war from the power of the sword.
Job 5:21 You shall be hidden from the lash of the tongue, and shall not fear destruction when it comes.
Job 5:22 At destruction and famine you shall laugh, and shall not fear the beasts of the earth.
Job 5:23 For you shall be in league with the stones of the field, and the beasts of the field shall be at peace with
you.
Job 5:24 You shall know that your tent is at peace, and you shall inspect your fold and miss nothing.
Job 5:25 You shall know also that your offspring shall be many, and your descendants as the grass of the earth.
Job 5:26 You shall come to your grave in ripe old age, like a sheaf gathered up in its season.
Job 5:27 Behold, this we have searched out; it is true. Hear, and know it for your good."
Job 6:1 Then Job answered and said:
Job 6:2 "Oh that my vexation were weighed, and all my calamity laid in the balances!
Job 6:3 For then it would be heavier than the sand of the sea; therefore my words have been rash.
Job 6:4 For the arrows of the Almighty are in me; my spirit drinks their poison; the terrors of God are arrayed
against me.
Job 6:5 Does the wild donkey bray when he has grass, or the ox low over his fodder?
Job 6:6 Can that which is tasteless be eaten without salt, or is there any taste in the juice of the mallow?
Job 6:7 My appetite refuses to touch them; they are as food that is loathsome to me.
Job 6:8 "Oh that I might have my request, and that God would fulfill my hope,
Job 6:9 that it would please God to crush me, that he would let loose his hand and cut me off!
Job 6:10 This would be my comfort; I would even exult in pain unsparing, for I have not denied the words of the
Holy One.
Job 6:11 What is my strength, that I should wait? And what is my end, that I should be patient?
Job 6:12 Is my strength the strength of stones, or is my flesh bronze?
Job 6:13 Have I any help in me, when resource is driven from me?
Job 6:14 "He who withholds kindness from a friend forsakes the fear of the Almighty.
Job 6:15 My brothers are treacherous as a torrent-bed, as torrential streams that pass away,
Job 6:16 which are dark with ice, and where the snow hides itself.
Job 6:17 When they melt, they disappear; when it is hot, they vanish from their place.
Job 6:18 The caravans turn aside from their course; they go up into the waste and perish.
Job 6:19 The caravans of Tema look, the travelers of Sheba hope.
Job 6:20 They are ashamed because they were confident; they come there and are disappointed.
Job 6:21 For you have now become nothing; you see my calamity and are afraid.
Job 6:22 Have I said, 'Make me a gift'? Or, 'From your wealth offer a bribe for me'?
Job 6:23 Or, 'Deliver me from the adversary's hand'? Or, 'Redeem me from the hand of the ruthless'?
Job 6:24 "Teach me, and I will be silent; make me understand how I have gone astray.
Job 6:25 How forceful are upright words! But what does reproof from you reprove?
Job 6:26 Do you think that you can reprove words, when the speech of a despairing man is wind?
Job 6:27 You would even cast lots over the fatherless, and bargain over your friend.
Job 6:28 "But now, be pleased to look at me, for I will not lie to your face.
Job 6:29 Please turn; let no injustice be done. Turn now; my vindication is at stake.
Job 6:30 Is there any injustice on my tongue? Cannot my palate discern the cause of calamity?
Job 7:1 "Has not man a hard service on earth, and are not his days like the days of a hired hand?
Job 7:2 Like a slave who longs for the shadow, and like a hired hand who looks for his wages,
Job 7:3 so I am allotted months of emptiness, and nights of misery are apportioned to me.
Job 7:4 When I lie down I say, 'When shall I arise?' But the night is long, and I am full of tossing till the dawn.
Job 7:5 My flesh is clothed with worms and dirt; my skin hardens, then breaks out afresh.
Job 7:6 My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle and come to their end without hope.
Job 7:7 "Remember that my life is a breath; my eye will never again see good.
Job 7:8 The eye of him who sees me will behold me no more; while your eyes are on me, I shall be gone.Job 7:9 As the cloud fades and vanishes, so he who goes down to Sheol does not come up;
Job 7:10 he returns no more to his house, nor does his place know him anymore.
Job 7:11 "Therefore I will not restrain my mouth; I will speak in the anguish of my spirit; I will complain in the
bitterness of my soul.
Job 7:12 Am I the sea, or a sea monster, that you set a guard over me?
Job 7:13 When I say, 'My bed will comfort me, my couch will ease my complaint,'
Job 7:14 then you scare me with dreams and terrify me with visions,
Job 7:15 so that I would choose strangling and death rather than my bones.
Job 7:16 I loathe my life; I would not live forever. Leave me alone, for my days are a breath.
Job 7:17 What is man, that you make so much of him, and that you set your heart on him,
Job 7:18 visit him every morning and test him every moment?
Job 7:19 How long will you not look away from me, nor leave me alone till I swallow my spit?
Job 7:20 If I sin, what do I do to you, you watcher of mankind? Why have you made me your mark? Why have I
become a burden to you?
Job 7:21 Why do you not pardon my transgression and take away my iniquity? For now I shall lie in the earth;
you will seek me, but I shall not be."
Job 8:1 Then Bildad the Shuhite answered and said:
Job 8:2 "How long will you say these things, and the words of your mouth be a great wind?
Job 8:3 Does God pervert justice? Or does the Almighty pervert the right?
Job 8:4 If your children have sinned against him, he has delivered them into the hand of their transgression.
Job 8:5 If you will seek God and plead with the Almighty for mercy,
Job 8:6 if you are pure and upright, surely then he will rouse himself for you and restore your rightful habitation.
Job 8:7 And though your beginning was small, your latter days will be very great.
Job 8:8 "For inquire, please, of bygone ages, and consider what the fathers have searched out.
Job 8:9 For we are but of yesterday and know nothing, for our days on earth are a shadow.
Job 8:10 Will they not teach you and tell you and utter words out of their understanding?
Job 8:11 "Can papyrus grow where there is no marsh? Can reeds flourish where there is no water?
Job 8:12 While yet in flower and not cut down, they wither before any other plant.
Job 8:13 Such are the paths of all who forget God; the hope of the godless shall perish.
Job 8:14 His confidence is severed, and his trust is a spider's web.
Job 8:15 He leans against his house, but it does not stand; he lays hold of it, but it does not endure.
Job 8:16 He is a lush plant before the sun, and his shoots spread over his garden.
Job 8:17 His roots entwine the stone heap; he looks upon a house of stones.
Job 8:18 If he is destroyed from his place, then it will deny him, saying, 'I have never seen you.'
Job 8:19 Behold, this is the joy of his way, and out of the soil others will spring.
Job 8:20 "Behold, God will not reject a blameless man, nor take the hand of evildoers.
Job 8:21 He will yet fill your mouth with laughter, and your lips with shouting.
Job 8:22 Those who hate you will be clothed with shame, and the tent of the wicked will be no more."
Job 9:1 Then Job answered and said:
Job 9:2 "Truly I know that it is so: But how can a man be in the right before God?
Job 9:3 If one wished to contend with him, one could not answer him once in a thousand times.
Job 9:4 He is wise in heart and mighty in strength- who has hardened himself against him, and succeeded?-
Job 9:5 he who removes mountains, and they know it not, when he overturns them in his anger,
Job 9:6 who shakes the earth out of its place, and its pillars tremble;
Job 9:7 who commands the sun, and it does not rise; who seals up the stars;
Job 9:8 who alone stretched out the heavens and trampled the waves of the sea;
Job 9:9 who made the Bear and Orion, the Pleiades and the chambers of the south;
Job 9:10 who does great things beyond searching out, and marvelous things beyond number.
Job 9:11 Behold, he passes by me, and I see him not; he moves on, but I do not perceive him.
Job 9:12 Behold, he snatches away; who can turn him back? Who will say to him, 'What are you doing?'
Job 9:13 "God will not turn back his anger; beneath him bowed the helpers of Rahab.
Job 9:14 How then can I answer him, choosing my words with him?
Job 9:15 Though I am in the right, I cannot answer him; I must appeal for mercy to my accuser.
Job 9:16 If I summoned him and he answered me, I would not believe that he was listening to my voice.
Job 9:17 For he crushes me with a tempest and multiplies my wounds without cause;
Job 9:18 he will not let me get my breath, but fills me with bitterness.
Job 9:19 If it is a contest of strength, behold, he is mighty! If it is a matter of justice, who can summon him?
Job 9:20 Though I am in the right, my own mouth would condemn me; though I am blameless, he would prove
me perverse.Job 9:21 I am blameless; I regard not myself; I loathe my life.
Job 9:22 It is all one; therefore I say, He destroys both the blameless and the wicked.
Job 9:23 When disaster brings sudden death, he mocks at the calamity of the innocent.
Job 9:24 The earth is given into the hand of the wicked; he covers the faces of its judges- if it is not he, who
then is it?
Job 9:25 "My days are swifter than a runner; they flee away; they see no good.
Job 9:26 They go by like skiffs of reed, like an eagle swooping on the prey.
Job 9:27 If I say, 'I will forget my complaint, I will put off my sad face, and be of good cheer,'
Job 9:28 I become afraid of all my suffering, for I know you will not hold me innocent.
Job 9:29 I shall be condemned; why then do I labor in vain?
Job 9:30 If I wash myself with snow and cleanse my hands with lye,
Job 9:31 yet you will plunge me into a pit, and my own clothes will abhor me.
Job 9:32 For he is not a man, as I am, that I might answer him, that we should come to trial together.
Job 9:33 There is no arbiter between us, who might lay his hand on us both.
Job 9:34 Let him take his rod away from me, and let not dread of him terrify me.
Job 9:35 Then I would speak without fear of him, for I am not so in myself.
Job 10:1 "I loathe my life; I will give free utterance to my complaint; I will speak in the bitterness of my soul.
Job 10:2 I will say to God, Do not condemn me; let me know why you contend against me.
Job 10:3 Does it seem good to you to oppress, to despise the work of your hands and favor the designs of the
wicked?
Job 10:4 Have you eyes of flesh? Do you see as man sees?
Job 10:5 Are your days as the days of man, or your years as a man's years,
Job 10:6 that you seek out my iniquity and search for my sin,
Job 10:7 although you know that I am not guilty, and there is none to deliver out of your hand?
Job 10:8 Your hands fashioned and made me, and now you have destroyed me altogether.
Job 10:9 Remember that you have made me like clay; and will you return me to the dust?
Job 10:10 Did you not pour me out like milk and curdle me like cheese?
Job 10:11 You clothed me with skin and flesh, and knit me together with bones and sinews.
Job 10:12 You have granted me life and steadfast love, and your care has preserved my spirit.
Job 10:13 Yet these things you hid in your heart; I know that this was your purpose.
Job 10:14 If I sin, you watch me and do not acquit me of my iniquity.
Job 10:15 If I am guilty, woe to me! If I am in the right, I cannot lift up my head, for I am filled with disgrace and
look on my affliction.
Job 10:16 And were my head lifted up, you would hunt me like a lion and again work wonders against me.
Job 10:17 You renew your witnesses against me and increase your vexation toward me; you bring fresh troops
against me.
Job 10:18 "Why did you bring me out from the womb? Would that I had died before any eye had seen me
Job 10:19 and were as though I had not been, carried from the womb to the grave.
Job 10:20 Are not my days few? Then cease, and leave me alone, that I may find a little cheer
Job 10:21 before I go- and I shall not return- to the land of darkness and deep shadow,
Job 10:22 the land of gloom like thick darkness, like deep shadow without any order, where light is as thick
darkness."
Job 11:1 Then Zophar the Naamathite answered and said:
Job 11:2 "Should a multitude of words go unanswered, and a man full of talk be judged right?
Job 11:3 Should your babble silence men, and when you mock, shall no one shame you?
Job 11:4 For you say, 'My doctrine is pure, and I am clean in God's eyes.'
Job 11:5 But oh, that God would speak and open his lips to you,
Job 11:6 and that he would tell you the secrets of wisdom! For he is manifold in understanding. Know then that
God exacts of you less than your guilt deserves.
Job 11:7 "Can you find out the deep things of God? Can you find out the limit of the Almighty?
Job 11:8 It is higher than heaven- what can you do? Deeper than Sheol- what can you know?
Job 11:9 Its measure is longer than the earth and broader than the sea.
Job 11:10 If he passes through and imprisons and summons the court, who can turn him back?
Job 11:11 For he knows worthless men; when he sees iniquity, will he not consider it?
Job 11:12 But a stupid man will get understanding when a wild donkey's colt is born a man!
Job 11:13 "If you prepare your heart, you will stretch out your hands toward him.
Job 11:14 If iniquity is in your hand, put it far away, and let not injustice dwell in your tents.
Job 11:15 Surely then you will lift up your face without blemish; you will be secure and will not fear.
Job 11:16 You will forget your misery; you will remember it as waters that have passed away.Job 11:17 And your life will be brighter than the noonday; its darkness will be like the morning.
Job 11:18 And you will feel secure, because there is hope; you will look around and take your rest in security.
Job 11:19 You will lie down, and none will make you afraid; many will court your favor.
Job 11:20 But the eyes of the wicked will fail; all way of escape will be lost to them, and their hope is to breathe
their last."
Job 12:1 Then Job answered and said:
Job 12:2 "No doubt you are the people, and wisdom will die with you.
Job 12:3 But I have understanding as well as you; I am not inferior to you. Who does not know such things as
these?
Job 12:4 I am a laughingstock to my friends; I, who called to God and he answered me, a just and blameless
man, am a laughingstock.
Job 12:5 In the thought of one who is at ease there is contempt for misfortune; it is ready for those whose feet
slip.
Job 12:6 The tents of robbers are at peace, and those who provoke God are secure, who bring their god in their
hand.
Job 12:7 "But ask the beasts, and they will teach you; the birds of the heavens, and they will tell you;
Job 12:8 or the bushes of the earth, and they will teach you; and the fish of the sea will declare to you.
Job 12:9 Who among all these does not know that the hand of the LORD has done this?
Job 12:10 In his hand is the life of every living thing and the breath of all mankind.
Job 12:11 Does not the ear test words as the palate tastes food?
Job 12:12 Wisdom is with the aged, and understanding in length of days.
Job 12:13 "With God are wisdom and might; he has counsel and understanding.
Job 12:14 If he tears down, none can rebuild; if he shuts a man in, none can open.
Job 12:15 If he withholds the waters, they dry up; if he sends them out, they overwhelm the land.
Job 12:16 With him are strength and sound wisdom; the deceived and the deceiver are his.
Job 12:17 He leads counselors away stripped, and judges he makes fools.
Job 12:18 He looses the bonds of kings and binds a waistcloth on their hips.
Job 12:19 He leads priests away stripped and overthrows the mighty.
Job 12:20 He deprives of speech those who are trusted and takes away the discernment of the elders.
Job 12:21 He pours contempt on princes and loosens the belt of the strong.
Job 12:22 He uncovers the deeps out of darkness and brings deep darkness to light.
Job 12:23 He makes nations great, and he destroys them; he enlarges nations, and leads them away.
Job 12:24 He takes away understanding from the chiefs of the people of the earth and makes them wander in a
pathless waste.
Job 12:25 They grope in the dark without light, and he makes them stagger like a drunken man.
Job 13:1 "Behold, my eye has seen all this, my ear has heard and understood it.
Job 13:2 What you know, I also know; I am not inferior to you.
Job 13:3 But I would speak to the Almighty, and I desire to argue my case with God.
Job 13:4 As for you, you whitewash with lies; worthless physicians are you all.
Job 13:5 Oh that you would keep silent, and it would be your wisdom!
Job 13:6 Hear now my argument and listen to the pleadings of my lips.
Job 13:7 Will you speak falsely for God and speak deceitfully for him?
Job 13:8 Will you show partiality toward him? Will you plead the case for God?
Job 13:9 Will it be well with you when he searches you out? Or can you deceive him, as one deceives a man?
Job 13:10 He will surely rebuke you if in secret you show partiality.
Job 13:11 Will not his majesty terrify you, and the dread of him fall upon you?
Job 13:12 Your maxims are proverbs of ashes; your defenses are defenses of clay.
Job 13:13 "Let me have silence, and I will speak, and let come on me what may.
Job 13:14 Why should I take my flesh in my teeth and put my life in my hand?
Job 13:15 Though he slay me, I will hope in him; yet I will argue my ways to his face.
Job 13:16 This will be my salvation, that the godless shall not come before him.
Job 13:17 Keep listening to my words, and let my declaration be in your ears.
Job 13:18 Behold, I have prepared my case; I know that I shall be in the right.
Job 13:19 Who is there who will contend with me? For then I would be silent and die.
Job 13:20 Only grant me two things, then I will not hide myself from your face:
Job 13:21 withdraw your hand far from me, and let not dread of you terrify me.
Job 13:22 Then call, and I will answer; or let me speak, and you reply to me.
Job 13:23 How many are my iniquities and my sins? Make me know my transgression and my sin.
Job 13:24 Why do you hide your face and count me as your enemy?Job 13:25 Will you frighten a driven leaf and pursue dry chaff?
Job 13:26 For you write bitter things against me and make me inherit the iniquities of my youth.
Job 13:27 You put my feet in the stocks and watch all my paths; you set a limit for the soles of my feet.
Job 13:28 Man wastes away like a rotten thing, like a garment that is moth-eaten.
Job 14:1 "Man who is born of a woman is few of days and full of trouble.
Job 14:2 He comes out like a flower and withers; he flees like a shadow and continues not.
Job 14:3 And do you open your eyes on such a one and bring me into judgment with you?
Job 14:4 Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? There is not one.
Job 14:5 Since his days are determined, and the number of his months is with you, and you have appointed his
limits that he cannot pass,
Job 14:6 look away from him and leave him alone, that he may enjoy, like a hired hand, his day.
Job 14:7 "For there is hope for a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that its shoots will not cease.
Job 14:8 Though its root grow old in the earth, and its stump die in the soil,
Job 14:9 yet at the scent of water it will bud and put out branches like a young plant.
Job 14:10 But a man dies and is laid low; man breathes his last, and where is he?
Job 14:11 As waters fail from a lake and a river wastes away and dries up,
Job 14:12 so a man lies down and rises not again; till the heavens are no more he will not awake or be roused
out of his sleep.
Job 14:13 Oh that you would hide me in Sheol, that you would conceal me until your wrath be past, that you
would appoint me a set time, and remember me!
Job 14:14 If a man dies, shall he live again? All the days of my service I would wait, till my renewal should
come.
Job 14:15 You would call, and I would answer you; you would long for the work of your hands.
Job 14:16 For then you would number my steps; you would not keep watch over my sin;
Job 14:17 my transgression would be sealed up in a bag, and you would cover over my iniquity.
Job 14:18 "But the mountain falls and crumbles away, and the rock is removed from its place;
Job 14:19 the waters wear away the stones; the torrents wash away the soil of the earth; so you destroy the
hope of man.
Job 14:20 You prevail forever against him, and he passes; you change his countenance, and send him away.
Job 14:21 His sons come to honor, and he does not know it; they are brought low, and he perceives it not.
Job 14:22 He feels only the pain of his own body, and he mourns only for himself."
Job 15:1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite an swered and said:
Job 15:2 "Should a wise man answer with windy knowledge, and fill his belly with the east wind?
Job 15:3 Should he argue in unprofitable talk, or in words with which he can do no good?
Job 15:4 But you are doing away with the fear of God and hindering meditation before God.
Job 15:5 For your iniquity teaches your mouth, and you choose the tongue of the crafty.
Job 15:6 Your own mouth condemns you, and not I; your own lips testify against you.
Job 15:7 "Are you the first man who was born? Or were you brought forth before the hills?
Job 15:8 Have you listened in the council of God? And do you limit wisdom to yourself?
Job 15:9 What do you know that we do not know? What do you understand that is not clear to us?
Job 15:10 Both the gray-haired and the aged are among us, older than your father.
Job 15:11 Are the comforts of God too small for you, or the word that deals gently with you?
Job 15:12 Why does your heart carry you away, and why do your eyes flash,
Job 15:13 that you turn your spirit against God and bring such words out of your mouth?
Job 15:14 What is man, that he can be pure? Or he who is born of a woman, that he can be righteous?
Job 15:15 Behold, God puts no trust in his holy ones, and the heavens are not pure in his sight;
Job 15:16 how much less one who is abominable and corrupt, a man who drinks injustice like water!
Job 15:17 "I will show you; hear me, and what I have seen I will declare
Job 15:18 (what wise men have told, without hiding it from their fathers,
Job 15:19 to whom alone the land was given, and no stranger passed among them).
Job 15:20 The wicked man writhes in pain all his days, through all the years that are laid up for the ruthless.
Job 15:21 Dreadful sounds are in his ears; in prosperity the destroyer will come upon him.
Job 15:22 He does not believe that he will return out of darkness, and he is marked for the sword.
Job 15:23 He wanders abroad for bread, saying, 'Where is it?' He knows that a day of darkness is ready at his
hand;
Job 15:24 distress and anguish terrify him; they prevail against him, like a king ready for battle.
Job 15:25 Because he has stretched out his hand against God and defies the Almighty,
Job 15:26 running stubbornly against him with a thickly bossed shield;
Job 15:27 because he has covered his face with his fat and gathered fat upon his waistJob 15:28 and has lived in desolate cities, in houses that none should inhabit, which were ready to become
heaps of ruins;
Job 15:29 he will not be rich, and his wealth will not endure, nor will his possessions spread over the earth;
Job 15:30 he will not depart from darkness; the flame will dry up his shoots, and by the breath of his mouth he
will depart.
Job 15:31 Let him not trust in emptiness, deceiving himself, for emptiness will be his payment.
Job 15:32 It will be paid in full before his time, and his branch will not be green.
Job 15:33 He will shake off his unripe grape like the vine, and cast off his blossom like the olive tree.
Job 15:34 For the company of the godless is barren, and fire consumes the tents of bribery.
Job 15:35 They conceive trouble and give birth to evil, and their womb prepares deceit."
Job 16:1 Then Job answered and said:
Job 16:2 "I have heard many such things; miserable comforters are you all.
Job 16:3 Shall windy words have an end? Or what provokes you that you answer?
Job 16:4 I also could speak as you do, if you were in my place; I could join words together against you and
shake my head at you.
Job 16:5 I could strengthen you with my mouth, and the solace of my lips would assuage your pain.
Job 16:6 "If I speak, my pain is not assuaged, and if I forbear, how much of it leaves me?
Job 16:7 Surely now God has worn me out; he has made desolate all my company.
Job 16:8 And he has shriveled me up, which is a witness against me, and my leanness has risen up against me;
it testifies to my face.
Job 16:9 He has torn me in his wrath and hated me; he has gnashed his teeth at me; my adversary sharpens
his eyes against me.
Job 16:10 Men have gaped at me with their mouth; they have struck me insolently on the cheek; they mass
themselves together against me.
Job 16:11 God gives me up to the ungodly and casts me into the hands of the wicked.
Job 16:12 I was at ease, and he broke me apart; he seized me by the neck and dashed me to pieces; he set me
up as his target;
Job 16:13 his archers surround me. He slashes open my kidneys and does not spare; he pours out my gall on
the ground.
Job 16:14 He breaks me with breach upon breach; he runs upon me like a warrior.
Job 16:15 I have sewed sackcloth upon my skin and have laid my strength in the dust.
Job 16:16 My face is red with weeping, and on my eyelids is deep darkness,
Job 16:17 although there is no violence in my hands, and my prayer is pure.
Job 16:18 "O earth, cover not my blood, and let my cry find no resting place.
Job 16:19 Even now, behold, my witness is in heaven, and he who testifies for me is on high.
Job 16:20 My friends scorn me; my eye pours out tears to God,
Job 16:21 that he would argue the case of a man with God, as a son of man does with his neighbor.
Job 16:22 For when a few years have come I shall go the way from which I shall not return.
Job 17:1 My spirit is broken; my days are extinct; the graveyard is ready for me.
Job 17:2 Surely there are mockers about me, and my eye dwells on their provocation.
Job 17:3 "Lay down a pledge for me with yourself; who is there who will put up security for me?
Job 17:4 Since you have closed their hearts to understanding, therefore you will not let them triumph.
Job 17:5 He who informs against his friends to get a share of their property- the eyes of his children will fail.
Job 17:6 "He has made me a byword of the peoples, and I am one before whom men spit.
Job 17:7 My eye has grown dim from vexation, and all my members are like a shadow.
Job 17:8 The upright are appalled at this, and the innocent stirs himself up against the godless.
Job 17:9 Yet the righteous holds to his way, and he who has clean hands grows stronger and stronger.
Job 17:10 But you, come on again, all of you, and I shall not find a wise man among you.
Job 17:11 My days are past; my plans are broken off, the desires of my heart.
Job 17:12 They make night into day; 'The light,' they say, 'is near to the darkness.'
Job 17:13 If I hope for Sheol as my house, if I make my bed in darkness,
Job 17:14 if I say to the pit, 'You are my father,' and to the worm, 'My mother,' or 'My sister,'
Job 17:15 where then is my hope? Who will see my hope?
Job 17:16 Will it go down to the bars of Sheol? Shall we descend together into the dust?"
Job 18:1 Then Bildad the Shuhite an swered and said:
Job 18:2 "How long will you hunt for words? Consider, and then we will speak.
Job 18:3 Why are we counted as cattle? Why are we stupid in your sight?
Job 18:4 You who tear yourself in your anger, shall the earth be forsaken for you, or the rock be removed out of
its place?Job 18:5 "Indeed, the light of the wicked is put out, and the flame of his fire does not shine.
Job 18:6 The light is dark in his tent, and his lamp above him is put out.
Job 18:7 His strong steps are shortened, and his own schemes throw him down.
Job 18:8 For he is cast into a net by his own feet, and he walks on its mesh.
Job 18:9 A trap seizes him by the heel; a snare lays hold of him.
Job 18:10 A rope is hidden for him in the ground, a trap for him in the path.
Job 18:11 Terrors frighten him on every side, and chase him at his heels.
Job 18:12 His strength is famished, and calamity is ready for his stumbling.
Job 18:13 It consumes the parts of his skin; the firstborn of death consumes his limbs.
Job 18:14 He is torn from the tent in which he trusted and is brought to the king of terrors.
Job 18:15 In his tent dwells that which is none of his; sulfur is scattered over his habitation.
Job 18:16 His roots dry up beneath, and his branches wither above.
Job 18:17 His memory perishes from the earth, and he has no name in the street.
Job 18:18 He is thrust from light into darkness, and driven out of the world.
Job 18:19 He has no posterity or progeny among his people, and no survivor where he used to live.
Job 18:20 They of the west are appalled at his day, and horror seizes them of the east.
Job 18:21 Surely such are the dwellings of the unrighteous, such is the place of him who knows not God."
Job 19:1 Then Job answered and said:
Job 19:2 "How long will you torment me and break me in pieces with words?
Job 19:3 These ten times you have cast reproach upon me; are you not ashamed to wrong me?
Job 19:4 And even if it be true that I have erred, my error remains with myself.
Job 19:5 If indeed you magnify yourselves against me and make my disgrace an argument against me,
Job 19:6 know then that God has put me in the wrong and closed his net about me.
Job 19:7 Behold, I cry out, 'Violence!' but I am not answered; I call for help, but there is no justice.
Job 19:8 He has walled up my way, so that I cannot pass, and he has set darkness upon my paths.
Job 19:9 He has stripped from me my glory and taken the crown from my head.
Job 19:10 He breaks me down on every side, and I am gone, and my hope has he pulled up like a tree.
Job 19:11 He has kindled his wrath against me and counts me as his adversary.
Job 19:12 His troops come on together; they have cast up their siege ramp against me and encamp around my
tent.
Job 19:13 "He has put my brothers far from me, and those who knew me are wholly estranged from me.
Job 19:14 My relatives have failed me, my close friends have forgotten me.
Job 19:15 The guests in my house and my maidservants count me as a stranger; I have become a foreigner in
their eyes.
Job 19:16 I call to my servant, but he gives me no answer; I must plead with him with my mouth for mercy.
Job 19:17 My breath is strange to my wife, and I am a stench to the children of my own mother.
Job 19:18 Even young children despise me; when I rise they talk against me.
Job 19:19 All my intimate friends abhor me, and those whom I loved have turned against me.
Job 19:20 My bones stick to my skin and to my flesh, and I have escaped by the skin of my teeth.
Job 19:21 Have mercy on me, have mercy on me, O you my friends, for the hand of God has touched me!
Job 19:22 Why do you, like God, pursue me? Why are you not satisfied with my flesh?
Job 19:23 "Oh that my words were written! Oh that they were inscribed in a book!
Job 19:24 Oh that with an iron pen and lead they were engraved in the rock forever!
Job 19:25 For I know that my Redeemer lives, and at the last he will stand upon the earth.
Job 19:26 And after my skin has been thus destroyed, yet in my flesh I shall see God,
Job 19:27 whom I shall see for myself, and my eyes shall behold, and not another. My heart faints within me!
Job 19:28 If you say, 'How we will pursue him!' and, 'The root of the matter is found in him,'
Job 19:29 be afraid of the sword, for wrath brings the punishment of the sword, that you may know there is a
judgment."
Job 20:1 Then Zophar the Naamathite answered and said:
Job 20:2 "Therefore my thoughts answer me, because of my haste within me.
Job 20:3 I hear censure that insults me, and out of my understanding a spirit answers me.
Job 20:4 Do you not know this from of old, since man was placed on earth,
Job 20:5 that the exulting of the wicked is short, and the joy of the godless but for a moment?
Job 20:6 Though his height mount up to the heavens, and his head reach to the clouds,
Job 20:7 he will perish forever like his own dung; those who have seen him will say, 'Where is he?'
Job 20:8 He will fly away like a dream and not be found; he will be chased away like a vision of the night.
Job 20:9 The eye that saw him will see him no more, nor will his place any more behold him.
Job 20:10 His children will seek the favor of the poor, and his hands will give back his wealth.Job 20:11 His bones are full of his youthful vigor, but it will lie down with him in the dust.
Job 20:12 "Though evil is sweet in his mouth, though he hides it under his tongue,
Job 20:13 though he is loath to let it go and holds it in his mouth,
Job 20:14 yet his food is turned in his stomach; it is the venom of cobras within him.
Job 20:15 He swallows down riches and vomits them up again; God casts them out of his belly.
Job 20:16 He will suck the poison of cobras; the tongue of a viper will kill him.
Job 20:17 He will not look upon the rivers, the streams flowing with honey and curds.
Job 20:18 He will give back the fruit of his toil and will not swallow it down; from the profit of his trading he will
get no enjoyment.
Job 20:19 For he has crushed and abandoned the poor; he has seized a house that he did not build.
Job 20:20 "Because he knew no contentment in his belly, he will not let anything in which he delights escape
him.
Job 20:21 There was nothing left after he had eaten; therefore his prosperity will not endure.
Job 20:22 In the fullness of his sufficiency he will be in distress; the hand of everyone in misery will come
against him.
Job 20:23 To fill his belly to the full God will send his burning anger against him and rain it upon him into his
body.
Job 20:24 He will flee from an iron weapon; a bronze arrow will strike him through.
Job 20:25 It is drawn forth and comes out of his body; the glittering point comes out of his gallbladder; terrors
come upon him.
Job 20:26 Utter darkness is laid up for his treasures; a fire not fanned will devour him; what is left in his tent will
be consumed.
Job 20:27 The heavens will reveal his iniquity, and the earth will rise up against him.
Job 20:28 The possessions of his house will be carried away, dragged off in the day of God's wrath.
Job 20:29 This is the wicked man's portion from God, the heritage decreed for him by God."
Job 21:1 Then Job answered and said:
Job 21:2 "Keep listening to my words, and let this be your comfort.
Job 21:3 Bear with me, and I will speak, and after I have spoken, mock on.
Job 21:4 As for me, is my complaint against man? Why should I not be impatient?
Job 21:5 Look at me and be appalled, and lay your hand over your mouth.
Job 21:6 When I remember I am dismayed, and shuddering seizes my flesh.
Job 21:7 Why do the wicked live, reach old age, and grow mighty in power?
Job 21:8 Their offspring are established in their presence, and their descendants before their eyes.
Job 21:9 Their houses are safe from fear, and no rod of God is upon them.
Job 21:10 Their bull breeds without fail; their cow calves and does not miscarry.
Job 21:11 They send out their little boys like a flock, and their children dance.
Job 21:12 They sing to the tambourine and the lyre and rejoice to the sound of the pipe.
Job 21:13 They spend their days in prosperity, and in peace they go down to Sheol.
Job 21:14 They say to God, 'Depart from us! We do not desire the knowledge of your ways.
Job 21:15 What is the Almighty, that we should serve him? And what profit do we get if we pray to him?'
Job 21:16 Behold, is not their prosperity in their hand? The counsel of the wicked is far from me.
Job 21:17 "How often is it that the lamp of the wicked is put out? That their calamity comes upon them? That
God distributes pains in his anger?
Job 21:18 That they are like straw before the wind, and like chaff that the storm carries away?
Job 21:19 You say, 'God stores up their iniquity for their children.' Let him pay it out to them, that they may know
it.
Job 21:20 Let their own eyes see their destruction, and let them drink of the wrath of the Almighty.
Job 21:21 For what do they care for their houses after them, when the number of their months is cut off?
Job 21:22 Will any teach God knowledge, seeing that he judges those who are on high?
Job 21:23 One dies in his full vigor, being wholly at ease and secure,
Job 21:24 his pails full of milk and the marrow of his bones moist.
Job 21:25 Another dies in bitterness of soul, never having tasted of prosperity.
Job 21:26 They lie down alike in the dust, and the worms cover them.
Job 21:27 "Behold, I know your thoughts and your schemes to wrong me.
Job 21:28 For you say, 'Where is the house of the prince? Where is the tent in which the wicked lived?'
Job 21:29 Have you not asked those who travel the roads, and do you not accept their testimony
Job 21:30 that the evil man is spared in the day of calamity, that he is rescued in the day of wrath?
Job 21:31 Who declares his way to his face, and who repays him for what he has done?
Job 21:32 When he is carried to the grave, watch is kept over his tomb.Job 21:33 The clods of the valley are sweet to him; all mankind follows after him, and those who go before him
are innumerable.
Job 21:34 How then will you comfort me with empty nothings? There is nothing left of your answers but
falsehood."
Job 22:1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite an swered and said:
Job 22:2 "Can a man be profitable to God? Surely he who is wise is profitable to himself.
Job 22:3 Is it any pleasure to the Almighty if you are in the right, or is it gain to him if you make your ways
blameless?
Job 22:4 Is it for your fear of him that he reproves you and enters into judgment with you?
Job 22:5 Is not your evil abundant? There is no end to your iniquities.
Job 22:6 For you have exacted pledges of your brothers for nothing and stripped the naked of their clothing.
Job 22:7 You have given no water to the weary to drink, and you have withheld bread from the hungry.
Job 22:8 The man with power possessed the land, and the favored man lived in it.
Job 22:9 You have sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless were crushed.
Job 22:10 Therefore snares are all around you, and sudden terror overwhelms you,
Job 22:11 or darkness, so that you cannot see, and a flood of water covers you.
Job 22:12 "Is not God high in the heavens? See the highest stars, how lofty they are!
Job 22:13 But you say, 'What does God know? Can he judge through the deep darkness?
Job 22:14 Thick clouds veil him, so that he does not see, and he walks on the vault of heaven.'
Job 22:15 Will you keep to the old way that wicked men have trod?
Job 22:16 They were snatched away before their time; their foundation was washed away.
Job 22:17 They said to God, 'Depart from us,' and 'What can the Almighty do to us?'
Job 22:18 Yet he filled their houses with good things- but the counsel of the wicked is far from me.
Job 22:19 The righteous see it and are glad; the innocent one mocks at them,
Job 22:20 saying, 'Surely our adversaries are cut off, and what they left the fire has consumed.'
Job 22:21 "Agree with God, and be at peace; thereby good will come to you.
Job 22:22 Receive instruction from his mouth, and lay up his words in your heart.
Job 22:23 If you return to the Almighty you will be built up; if you remove injustice far from your tents,
Job 22:24 if you lay gold in the dust, and gold of Ophir among the stones of the torrent bed,
Job 22:25 then the Almighty will be your gold and your precious silver.
Job 22:26 For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty and lift up your face to God.
Job 22:27 You will make your prayer to him, and he will hear you, and you will pay your vows.
Job 22:28 You will decide on a matter, and it will be established for you, and light will shine on your ways.
Job 22:29 For when they are humbled you say, 'It is because of pride'; but he saves the lowly.
Job 22:30 He delivers even the one who is not innocent, who will be delivered through the cleanness of your
hands."
Job 23:1 Then Job answered and said:
Job 23:2 "Today also my complaint is bitter; my hand is heavy on account of my groaning.
Job 23:3 Oh, that I knew where I might find him, that I might come even to his seat!
Job 23:4 I would lay my case before him and fill my mouth with arguments.
Job 23:5 I would know what he would answer me and understand what he would say to me.
Job 23:6 Would he contend with me in the greatness of his power? No; he would pay attention to me.
Job 23:7 There an upright man could argue with him, and I would be acquitted forever by my judge.
Job 23:8 "Behold, I go forward, but he is not there, and backward, but I do not perceive him;
Job 23:9 on the left hand when he is working, I do not behold him; he turns to the right hand, but I do not see
him.
Job 23:10 But he knows the way that I take; when he has tried me, I shall come out as gold.
Job 23:11 My foot has held fast to his steps; I have kept his way and have not turned aside.
Job 23:12 I have not departed from the commandment of his lips; I have treasured the words of his mouth more
than my portion of food.
Job 23:13 But he is unchangeable, and who can turn him back? What he desires, that he does.
Job 23:14 For he will complete what he appoints for me, and many such things are in his mind.
Job 23:15 Therefore I am terrified at his presence; when I consider, I am in dread of him.
Job 23:16 God has made my heart faint; the Almighty has terrified me;
Job 23:17 yet I am not silenced because of the darkness, nor because thick darkness covers my face.
Job 24:1 "Why are not times of judgment kept by the Almighty, and why do those who know him never see his
days?
Job 24:2 Some move landmarks; they seize flocks and pasture them.
Job 24:3 They drive away the donkey of the fatherless; they take the widow's ox for a pledge.Job 24:4 They thrust the poor off the road; the poor of the earth all hide themselves.
Job 24:5 Behold, like wild donkeys in the desert the poor go out to their toil, seeking game; the wasteland yields
food for their children.
Job 24:6 They gather their fodder in the field, and they glean the vineyard of the wicked man.
Job 24:7 They lie all night naked, without clothing, and have no covering in the cold.
Job 24:8 They are wet with the rain of the mountains and cling to the rock for lack of shelter.
Job 24:9 (There are those who snatch the fatherless child from the breast, and they take a pledge against the
poor.)
Job 24:10 They go about naked, without clothing; hungry, they carry the sheaves;
Job 24:11 among the olive rows of the wicked they make oil; they tread the winepresses, but suffer thirst.
Job 24:12 From out of the city the dying groan, and the soul of the wounded cries for help; yet God charges no
one with wrong.
Job 24:13 "There are those who rebel against the light, who are not acquainted with its ways, and do not stay in
its paths.
Job 24:14 The murderer rises before it is light, that he may kill the poor and needy, and in the night he is like a
thief.
Job 24:15 The eye of the adulterer also waits for the twilight, saying, 'No eye will see me'; and he veils his face.
Job 24:16 In the dark they dig through houses; by day they shut themselves up; they do not know the light.
Job 24:17 For deep darkness is morning to all of them; for they are friends with the terrors of deep darkness.
Job 24:18 "You say, 'Swift are they on the face of the waters; their portion is cursed in the land; no treader turns
toward their vineyards.
Job 24:19 Drought and heat snatch away the snow waters; so does Sheol those who have sinned.
Job 24:20 The womb forgets them; the worm finds them sweet; they are no longer remembered, so wickedness
is broken like a tree.'
Job 24:21 "They wrong the barren childless woman, and do no good to the widow.
Job 24:22 Yet God prolongs the life of the mighty by his power; they rise up when they despair of life.
Job 24:23 He gives them security, and they are supported, and his eyes are upon their ways.
Job 24:24 They are exalted a little while, and then are gone; they are brought low and gathered up like all
others; they are cut off like the heads of grain.
Job 24:25 If it is not so, who will prove me a liar and show that there is nothing in what I say?"
Job 25:1 Then Bildad the Shuhite an swered and said:
Job 25:2 "Dominion and fear are with God; he makes peace in his high heaven.
Job 25:3 Is there any number to his armies? Upon whom does his light not arise?
Job 25:4 How then can man be in the right before God? How can he who is born of woman be pure?
Job 25:5 Behold, even the moon is not bright, and the stars are not pure in his eyes;
Job 25:6 how much less man, who is a maggot, and the son of man, who is a worm!"
Job 26:1 Then Job answered and said:
Job 26:2 "How you have helped him who has no power! How you have saved the arm that has no strength!
Job 26:3 How you have counseled him who has no wisdom, and plentifully declared sound knowledge!
Job 26:4 With whose help have you uttered words, and whose breath has come out from you?
Job 26:5 The dead tremble under the waters and their inhabitants.
Job 26:6 Sheol is naked before God, and Abaddon has no covering.
Job 26:7 He stretches out the north over the void and hangs the earth on nothing.
Job 26:8 He binds up the waters in his thick clouds, and the cloud is not split open under them.
Job 26:9 He covers the face of the full moon and spreads over it his cloud.
Job 26:10 He has inscribed a circle on the face of the waters at the boundary between light and darkness.
Job 26:11 The pillars of heaven tremble and are astounded at his rebuke.
Job 26:12 By his power he stilled the sea; by his understanding he shattered Rahab.
Job 26:13 By his wind the heavens were made fair; his hand pierced the fleeing serpent.
Job 26:14 Behold, these are but the outskirts of his ways, and how small a whisper do we hear of him! But the
thunder of his power who can understand?"
Job 27:1 And Job again took up his discourse, and said:
Job 27:2 "As God lives, who has taken away my right, and the Almighty, who has made my soul bitter,
Job 27:3 as long as my breath is in me, and the spirit of God is in my nostrils,
Job 27:4 my lips will not speak falsehood, and my tongue will not utter deceit.
Job 27:5 Far be it from me to say that you are right; till I die I will not put away my integrity from me.
Job 27:6 I hold fast my righteousness and will not let it go; my heart does not reproach me for any of my days.
Job 27:7 "Let my enemy be as the wicked, and let him who rises up against me be as the unrighteous.
Job 27:8 For what is the hope of the godless when God cuts him off, when God takes away his life?Job 27:9 Will God hear his cry when distress comes upon him?
Job 27:10 Will he take delight in the Almighty? Will he call upon God at all times?
Job 27:11 I will teach you concerning the hand of God; what is with the Almighty I will not conceal.
Job 27:12 Behold, all of you have seen it yourselves; why then have you become altogether vain?
Job 27:13 "This is the portion of a wicked man with God, and the heritage that oppressors receive from the
Almighty:
Job 27:14 If his children are multiplied, it is for the sword, and his descendants have not enough bread.
Job 27:15 Those who survive him the pestilence buries, and his widows do not weep.
Job 27:16 Though he heap up silver like dust, and pile up clothing like clay,
Job 27:17 he may pile it up, but the righteous will wear it, and the innocent will divide the silver.
Job 27:18 He builds his house like a moth's, like a booth that a watchman makes.
Job 27:19 He goes to bed rich, but will do so no more; he opens his eyes, and his wealth is gone.
Job 27:20 Terrors overtake him like a flood; in the night a whirlwind carries him off.
Job 27:21 The east wind lifts him up and he is gone; it sweeps him out of his place.
Job 27:22 It hurls at him without pity; he flees from its power in headlong flight.
Job 27:23 It claps its hands at him and hisses at him from its place.
Job 28:1 "Surely there is a mine for silver, and a place for gold that they refine.
Job 28:2 Iron is taken out of the earth, and copper is smelted from the ore.
Job 28:3 Man puts an end to darkness and searches out to the farthest limit the ore in gloom and deep
darkness.
Job 28:4 He opens shafts in a valley away from where anyone lives; they are forgotten by travelers; they hang
in the air, far away from mankind; they swing to and fro.
Job 28:5 As for the earth, out of it comes bread, but underneath it is turned up as by fire.
Job 28:6 Its stones are the place of sapphires, and it has dust of gold.
Job 28:7 "That path no bird of prey knows, and the falcon's eye has not seen it.
Job 28:8 The proud beasts have not trodden it; the lion has not passed over it.
Job 28:9 "Man puts his hand to the flinty rock and overturns mountains by the roots.
Job 28:10 He cuts out channels in the rocks, and his eye sees every precious thing.
Job 28:11 He dams up the streams so that they do not trickle, and the thing that is hidden he brings out to light.
Job 28:12 "But where shall wisdom be found? And where is the place of understanding?
Job 28:13 Man does not know its worth, and it is not found in the land of the living.
Job 28:14 The deep says, 'It is not in me,' and the sea says, 'It is not with me.'
Job 28:15 It cannot be bought for gold, and silver cannot be weighed as its price.
Job 28:16 It cannot be valued in the gold of Ophir, in precious onyx or sapphire.
Job 28:17 Gold and glass cannot equal it, nor can it be exchanged for jewels of fine gold.
Job 28:18 No mention shall be made of coral or of crystal; the price of wisdom is above, pearls.
Job 28:19 The topaz of Ethiopia cannot equal it, nor can it be valued in pure gold.
Job 28:20 "From where, then, does wisdom come? And where is the place of understanding?
Job 28:21 It is hidden from the eyes of all living and concealed from the birds of the air.
Job 28:22 Abaddon and Death say, 'We have heard a rumor of it with our ears.'
Job 28:23 "God understands the way to it, and he knows its place.
Job 28:24 For he looks to the ends of the earth and sees everything under the heavens.
Job 28:25 When he gave to the wind its weight and apportioned the waters by measure,
Job 28:26 when he made a decree for the rain and a way for the lightning of the thunder,
Job 28:27 then he saw it and declared it; he established it, and searched it out.
Job 28:28 And he said to man, 'Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom, and to turn away from evil is
understanding.'"
Job 29:1 And Job again took up his discourse, and said:
Job 29:2 "Oh, that I were as in the months of old, as in the days when God watched over me,
Job 29:3 when his lamp shone upon my head, and by his light I walked through darkness,
Job 29:4 as I was in my prime, when the friendship of God was upon my tent,
Job 29:5 when the Almighty was yet with me, when my children were all around me,
Job 29:6 when my steps were washed with butter, and the rock poured out for me streams of oil!
Job 29:7 When I went out to the gate of the city, when I prepared my seat in the square,
Job 29:8 the young men saw me and withdrew, and the aged rose and stood;
Job 29:9 the princes refrained from talking and laid their hand on their mouth;
Job 29:10 the voice of the nobles was hushed, and their tongue stuck to the roof of their mouth.
Job 29:11 When the ear heard, it called me blessed, and when the eye saw, it approved,
Job 29:12 because I delivered the poor who cried for help, and the fatherless who had none to help him.Job 29:13 The blessing of him who was about to perish came upon me, and I caused the widow's heart to sing
for joy.
Job 29:14 I put on righteousness, and it clothed me; my justice was like a robe and a turban.
Job 29:15 I was eyes to the blind and feet to the lame.
Job 29:16 I was a father to the needy, and I searched out the cause of him whom I did not know.
Job 29:17 I broke the fangs of the unrighteous and made him drop his prey from his teeth.
Job 29:18 Then I thought, 'I shall die in my nest, and I shall multiply my days as the sand,
Job 29:19 my roots spread out to the waters, with the dew all night on my branches,
Job 29:20 my glory fresh with me, and my bow ever new in my hand.'
Job 29:21 "Men listened to me and waited and kept silence for my counsel.
Job 29:22 After I spoke they did not speak again, and my word dropped upon them.
Job 29:23 They waited for me as for the rain, and they opened their mouths as for the spring rain.
Job 29:24 I smiled on them when they had no confidence, and the light of my face they did not cast down.
Job 29:25 I chose their way and sat as chief, and I lived like a king among his troops, like one who comforts
mourners.
Job 30:1 "But now they laugh at me, men who are younger than I, whose fathers I would have disdained to set
with the dogs of my flock.
Job 30:2 What could I gain from the strength of their hands, men whose vigor is gone?
Job 30:3 Through want and hard hunger they gnaw the dry ground by night in waste and desolation;
Job 30:4 they pick saltwort and the leaves of bushes, and the roots of the broom tree for their food.
Job 30:5 They are driven out from human company; they shout after them as after a thief.
Job 30:6 In the gullies of the torrents they must dwell, in holes of the earth and of the rocks.
Job 30:7 Among the bushes they bray; under the nettles they huddle together.
Job 30:8 A senseless, a nameless brood, they have been whipped out of the land.
Job 30:9 "And now I have become their song; I am a byword to them.
Job 30:10 They abhor me; they keep aloof from me; they do not hesitate to spit at the sight of me.
Job 30:11 Because God has loosed my cord and humbled me, they have cast off restraint in my presence.
Job 30:12 On my right hand the rabble rise; they push away my feet; they cast up against me their ways of
destruction.
Job 30:13 They break up my path; they promote my calamity; they need no one to help them.
Job 30:14 As through a wide breach they come; amid the crash they roll on.
Job 30:15 Terrors are turned upon me; my honor is pursued as by the wind, and my prosperity has passed
away like a cloud.
Job 30:16 "And now my soul is poured out within me; days of affliction have taken hold of me.
Job 30:17 The night racks my bones, and the pain that gnaws me takes no rest.
Job 30:18 With great force my garment is disfigured; it binds me about like the collar of my tunic.
Job 30:19 God has cast me into the mire, and I have become like dust and ashes.
Job 30:20 I cry to you for help and you do not answer me; I stand, and you only look at me.
Job 30:21 You have turned cruel to me; with the might of your hand you persecute me.
Job 30:22 You lift me up on the wind; you make me ride on it, and you toss me about in the roar of the storm.
Job 30:23 For I know that you will bring me to death and to the house appointed for all living.
Job 30:24 "Yet does not one in a heap of ruins stretch out his hand, and in his disaster cry for help?
Job 30:25 Did not I weep for him whose day was hard? Was not my soul grieved for the needy?
Job 30:26 But when I hoped for good, evil came, and when I waited for light, darkness came.
Job 30:27 My inward parts are in turmoil and never still; days of affliction come to meet me.
Job 30:28 I go about darkened, but not by the sun; I stand up in the assembly and cry for help.
Job 30:29 I am a brother of jackals and a companion of ostriches.
Job 30:30 My skin turns black and falls from me, and my bones burn with heat.
Job 30:31 My lyre is turned to mourning, and my pipe to the voice of those who weep.
Job 31:1 "I have made a covenant with my eyes; how then could I gaze at a virgin?
Job 31:2 What would be my portion from God above and my heritage from the Almighty on high?
Job 31:3 Is not calamity for the unrighteous, and disaster for the workers of iniquity?
Job 31:4 Does not he see my ways and number all my steps?
Job 31:5 "If I have walked with falsehood and my foot has hastened to deceit;
Job 31:6 (Let me be weighed in a just balance, and let God know my integrity!)
Job 31:7 if my step has turned aside from the way and my heart has gone after my eyes, and if any spot has
stuck to my hands,
Job 31:8 then let me sow, and another eat, and let what grows for me be rooted out.
Job 31:9 "If my heart has been enticed toward a woman, and I have lain in wait at my neighbor's door,Job 31:10 then let my wife grind for another, and let others bow down on her.
Job 31:11 For that would be a heinous crime; that would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges;
Job 31:12 for that would be a fire that consumes as far as Abaddon, and it would burn to the root all my
increase.
Job 31:13 "If I have rejected the cause of my manservant or my maidservant, when they brought a complaint
against me,
Job 31:14 what then shall I do when God rises up? When he makes inquiry, what shall I answer him?
Job 31:15 Did not he who made me in the womb make him? And did not one fashion us in the womb?
Job 31:16 "If I have withheld anything that the poor desired, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail,
Job 31:17 or have eaten my morsel alone, and the fatherless has not eaten of it
Job 31:18 (for from my youth the fatherless grew up with me as with a father, and from my mother's womb I
guided the widow),
Job 31:19 if I have seen anyone perish for lack of clothing, or the needy without covering,
Job 31:20 if his body has not blessed me, and if he was not warmed with the fleece of my sheep,
Job 31:21 if I have raised my hand against the fatherless, because I saw my help in the gate,
Job 31:22 then let my shoulder blade fall from my shoulder, and let my arm be broken from its socket.
Job 31:23 For I was in terror of calamity from God, and I could not have faced his majesty.
Job 31:24 "If I have made gold my trust or called fine gold my confidence,
Job 31:25 if I have rejoiced because my wealth was abundant or because my hand had found much,
Job 31:26 if I have looked at the sun when it shone, or the moon moving in splendor,
Job 31:27 and my heart has been secretly enticed, and my mouth has kissed my hand,
Job 31:28 this also would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges, for I would have been false to God above.
Job 31:29 "If I have rejoiced at the ruin of him who hated me, or exulted when evil overtook him
Job 31:30 (I have not let my mouth sin by asking for his life with a curse),
Job 31:31 if the men of my tent have not said, 'Who is there that has not been filled with his meat?'
Job 31:32 ( the sojourner has not lodged in the street; I have opened my doors to the traveler),
Job 31:33 if I have concealed my transgressions as others do by hiding my iniquity in my bosom,
Job 31:34 because I stood in great fear of the multitude, and the contempt of families terrified me, so that I kept
silence, and did not go out of doorsJob 31:35 Oh, that I had one to hear me! (Here is my signature! Let the Almighty answer me!) Oh, that I had the
indictment written by my adversary!
Job 31:36 Surely I would carry it on my shoulder; I would bind it on me as a crown;
Job 31:37 I would give him an account of all my steps; like a prince I would approach him.
Job 31:38 "If my land has cried out against me and its furrows have wept together,
Job 31:39 if I have eaten its yield without payment and made its owners breathe their last,
Job 31:40 let thorns grow instead of wheat, and foul weeds instead of barley." The words of Job are ended.
Job 32:1 So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes.
Job 32:2 Then Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the family of Ram, burned with anger. He burned with
anger at Job because he justified himself rather than God.
Job 32:3 He burned with anger also at Job's three friends because they had found no answer, although they
had declared Job to be in the wrong.
Job 32:4 Now Elihu had waited to speak to Job because they were older than he.
Job 32:5 And when Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, he burned with anger.
Job 32:6 And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said: "I am young in years, and you are aged;
therefore I was timid and afraid to declare my opinion to you.
Job 32:7 I said, 'Let days speak, and many years teach wisdom.'
Job 32:8 But it is the spirit in man, the breath of the Almighty, that makes him understand.
Job 32:9 It is not the old who are wise, nor the aged who understand what is right.
Job 32:10 Therefore I say, 'Listen to me; let me also declare my opinion.'
Job 32:11 "Behold, I waited for your words, I listened for your wise sayings, while you searched out what to say.
Job 32:12 I gave you my attention, and, behold, there was none among you who refuted Job or who answered
his words.
Job 32:13 Beware lest you say, 'We have found wisdom; God may vanquish him, not a man.'
Job 32:14 He has not directed his words against me, and I will not answer him with your speeches.
Job 32:15 "They are dismayed; they answer no more; they have not a word to say.
Job 32:16 And shall I wait, because they do not speak, because they stand there, and answer no more?
Job 32:17 I also will answer with my share; I also will declare my opinion.
Job 32:18 For I am full of words; the spirit within me constrains me.
Job 32:19 Behold, my belly is like wine that has no vent; like new wineskins ready to burst.Job 32:20 I must speak, that I may find relief; I must open my lips and answer.
Job 32:21 I will not show partiality to any man or use flattery toward any person.
Job 32:22 For I do not know how to flatter, else my Maker would soon take me away.
Job 33:1 "But now, hear my speech, O Job, and listen to all my words.
Job 33:2 Behold, I open my mouth; the tongue in my mouth speaks.
Job 33:3 My words declare the uprightness of my heart, and what my lips know they speak sincerely.
Job 33:4 The Spirit of God has made me, and the breath of the Almighty gives me life.
Job 33:5 Answer me, if you can; set your words in order before me; take your stand.
Job 33:6 Behold, I am toward God as you are; I too was pinched off from a piece of clay.
Job 33:7 Behold, no fear of me need terrify you; my pressure will not be heavy upon you.
Job 33:8 "Surely you have spoken in my ears, and I have heard the sound of your words.
Job 33:9 You say, 'I am pure, without transgression; I am clean, and there is no iniquity in me.
Job 33:10 Behold, he finds occasions against me, he counts me as his enemy,
Job 33:11 he puts my feet in the stocks and watches all my paths.'
Job 33:12 "Behold, in this you are not right. I will answer you, for God is greater than man.
Job 33:13 Why do you contend against him, saying, 'He will answer none of man's words'?
Job 33:14 For God speaks in one way, and in two, though man does not perceive it.
Job 33:15 In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falls on men, while they slumber on their beds,
Job 33:16 then he opens the ears of men and terrifies them with warnings,
Job 33:17 that he may turn man aside from his deed and conceal pride from a man;
Job 33:18 he keeps back his soul from the pit, his life from perishing by the sword.
Job 33:19 "Man is also rebuked with pain on his bed and with continual strife in his bones,
Job 33:20 so that his life loathes bread, and his appetite the choicest food.
Job 33:21 His flesh is so wasted away that it cannot be seen, and his bones that were not seen stick out.
Job 33:22 His soul draws near the pit, and his life to those who bring death.
Job 33:23 If there be for him an angel, a mediator, one of the thousand, to declare to man what is right for him,
Job 33:24 and he is merciful to him, and says, 'Deliver him from going down into the pit; I have found a ransom;
Job 33:25 let his flesh become fresh with youth; let him return to the days of his youthful vigor';
Job 33:26 then man prays to God, and he accepts him; he sees his face with a shout of joy, and he restores to
man his righteousness.
Job 33:27 He sings before men and says: 'I sinned and perverted what was right, and it was not repaid to me.
Job 33:28 He has redeemed my soul from going down into the pit, and my life shall look upon the light.'
Job 33:29 "Behold, God does all these things, twice, three times, with a man,
Job 33:30 to bring back his soul from the pit, that he may be lighted with the light of life.
Job 33:31 Pay attention, O Job, listen to me; be silent, and I will speak.
Job 33:32 If you have any words, answer me; speak, for I desire to justify you.
Job 33:33 If not, listen to me; be silent, and I will teach you wisdom."
Job 34:1 Then Elihu answered and said:
Job 34:2 "Hear my words, you wise men, and give ear to me, you who know;
Job 34:3 for the ear tests words as the palate tastes food.
Job 34:4 Let us choose what is right; let us know among ourselves what is good.
Job 34:5 For Job has said, 'I am in the right, and God has taken away my right;
Job 34:6 in spite of my right I am counted a liar; my wound is incurable, though I am without transgression.'
Job 34:7 What man is like Job, who drinks up scoffing like water,
Job 34:8 who travels in company with evildoers and walks with wicked men?
Job 34:9 For he has said, 'It profits a man nothing that he should take delight in God.'
Job 34:10 "Therefore, hear me, you men of understanding: far be it from God that he should do wickedness,
and from the Almighty that he should do wrong.
Job 34:11 For according to the work of a man he will repay him, and according to his ways he will make it befall
him.
Job 34:12 Of a truth, God will not do wickedly, and the Almighty will not pervert justice.
Job 34:13 Who gave him charge over the earth, and who laid on him the whole world?
Job 34:14 If he should set his heart to it and gather to himself his spirit and his breath,
Job 34:15 all flesh would perish together, and man would return to dust.
Job 34:16 "If you have understanding, hear this; listen to what I say.
Job 34:17 Shall one who hates justice govern? Will you condemn him who is righteous and mighty,
Job 34:18 who says to a king, 'Worthless one,' and to nobles, 'Wicked man,'
Job 34:19 who shows no partiality to princes, nor regards the rich more than the poor, for they are all the work
of his hands?Job 34:20 In a moment they die; at midnight the people are shaken and pass away, and the mighty are taken
away by no human hand.
Job 34:21 "For his eyes are on the ways of a man, and he sees all his steps.
Job 34:22 There is no gloom or deep darkness where evildoers may hide themselves.
Job 34:23 For God has no need to consider a man further, that he should go before God in judgment.
Job 34:24 He shatters the mighty without investigation and sets others in their place.
Job 34:25 Thus, knowing their works, he overturns them in the night, and they are crushed.
Job 34:26 He strikes them for their wickedness in a place for all to see,
Job 34:27 because they turned aside from following him and had no regard for any of his ways,
Job 34:28 so that they caused the cry of the poor to come to him, and he heard the cry of the afflictedJob 34:29 When he is quiet, who can condemn? When he hides his face, who can behold him, whether it be a
nation or a man?-
Job 34:30 that a godless man should not reign, that he should not ensnare the people.
Job 34:31 "For has anyone said to God, 'I have borne punishment; I will not offend any more;
Job 34:32 teach me what I do not see; if I have done iniquity, I will do it no more'?
Job 34:33 Will he then make repayment to suit you, because you reject it? For you must choose, and not I;
therefore declare what you know.
Job 34:34 Men of understanding will say to me, and the wise man who hears me will say:
Job 34:35 'Job speaks without knowledge; his words are without insight.'
Job 34:36 Would that Job were tried to the end, because he answers like wicked men.
Job 34:37 For he adds rebellion to his sin; he claps his hands among us and multiplies his words against God."
Job 35:1 And Elihu answered and said:
Job 35:2 "Do you think this to be just? Do you say, 'It is my right before God,'
Job 35:3 that you ask, 'What advantage have I? How am I better off than if I had sinned?'
Job 35:4 I will answer you and your friends with you.
Job 35:5 Look at the heavens, and see; and behold the clouds, which are higher than you.
Job 35:6 If you have sinned, what do you accomplish against him? And if your transgressions are multiplied,
what do you do to him?
Job 35:7 If you are righteous, what do you give to him? Or what does he receive from your hand?
Job 35:8 Your wickedness concerns a man like yourself, and your righteousness a son of man.
Job 35:9 "Because of the multitude of oppressions people cry out; they call for help because of the arm of the
mighty.
Job 35:10 But none says, 'Where is God my Maker, who gives songs in the night,
Job 35:11 who teaches us more than the beasts of the earth and makes us wiser than the birds of the
heavens?'
Job 35:12 There they cry out, but he does not answer, because of the pride of evil men.
Job 35:13 Surely God does not hear an empty cry, nor does the Almighty regard it.
Job 35:14 How much less when you say that you do not see him, that the case is before him, and you are
waiting for him!
Job 35:15 And now, because his anger does not punish, and he does not take much note of transgression,
Job 35:16 Job opens his mouth in empty talk; he multiplies words without knowledge."
Job 36:1 And Elihu continued, and said:
Job 36:2 "Bear with me a little, and I will show you, for I have yet something to say on God's behalf.
Job 36:3 I will get my knowledge from afar and ascribe righteousness to my Maker.
Job 36:4 For truly my words are not false; one who is perfect in knowledge is with you.
Job 36:5 "Behold, God is mighty, and does not despise any; he is mighty in strength of understanding.
Job 36:6 He does not keep the wicked alive, but gives the afflicted their right.
Job 36:7 He does not withdraw his eyes from the righteous, but with kings on the throne he sets them forever,
and they are exalted.
Job 36:8 And if they are bound in chains and caught in the cords of affliction,
Job 36:9 then he declares to them their work and their transgressions, that they are behaving arrogantly.
Job 36:10 He opens their ears to instruction and commands that they return from iniquity.
Job 36:11 If they listen and serve him, they complete their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasantness.
Job 36:12 But if they do not listen, they perish by the sword and die without knowledge.
Job 36:13 "The godless in heart cherish anger; they do not cry for help when he binds them.
Job 36:14 They die in youth, and their life ends among the cult prostitutes.
Job 36:15 He delivers the afflicted by their affliction and opens their ear by adversity.
Job 36:16 He also allured you out of distress into a broad place where there was no cramping, and what was
set on your table was full of fatness.Job 36:17 "But you are full of the judgment on the wicked; judgment and justice seize you.
Job 36:18 Beware lest wrath entice you into scoffing, and let not the greatness of the ransom turn you aside.
Job 36:19 Will your cry for help avail to keep you from distress, or all the force of your strength?
Job 36:20 Do not long for the night, when peoples vanish in their place.
Job 36:21 Take care; do not turn to iniquity, for this you have chosen rather than affliction.
Job 36:22 Behold, God is exalted in his power; who is a teacher like him?
Job 36:23 Who has prescribed for him his way, or who can say, 'You have done wrong'?
Job 36:24 "Remember to extol his work, of which men have sung.
Job 36:25 All mankind has looked on it; man beholds it from afar.
Job 36:26 Behold, God is great, and we know him not; the number of his years is unsearchable.
Job 36:27 For he draws up the drops of water; they distill his mist in rain,
Job 36:28 which the skies pour down and drop on mankind abundantly.
Job 36:29 Can anyone understand the spreading of the clouds, the thunderings of his pavilion?
Job 36:30 Behold, he scatters his lightning about him and covers the roots of the sea.
Job 36:31 For by these he judges peoples; he gives food in abundance.
Job 36:32 He covers his hands with the lightning and commands it to strike the mark.
Job 36:33 Its crashing declares his presence; the cattle also declare that he rises.
Job 37:1 "At this also my heart trembles and leaps out of its place.
Job 37:2 Keep listening to the thunder of his voice and the rumbling that comes from his mouth.
Job 37:3 Under the whole heaven he lets it go, and his lightning to the corners of the earth.
Job 37:4 After it his voice roars; he thunders with his majestic voice, and he does not restrain the lightnings
when his voice is heard.
Job 37:5 God thunders wondrously with his voice; he does great things that we cannot comprehend.
Job 37:6 For to the snow he says, 'Fall on the earth,' likewise to the downpour, his mighty downpour.
Job 37:7 He seals up the hand of every man, that all men whom he made may know it.
Job 37:8 Then the beasts go into their lairs, and remain in their dens.
Job 37:9 From its chamber comes the whirlwind, and cold from the scattering winds.
Job 37:10 By the breath of God ice is given, and the broad waters are frozen fast.
Job 37:11 He loads the thick cloud with moisture; the clouds scatter his lightning.
Job 37:12 They turn around and around by his guidance, to accomplish all that he commands them on the face
of the habitable world.
Job 37:13 Whether for correction or for his land or for love, he causes it to happen.
Job 37:14 "Hear this, O Job; stop and consider the wondrous works of God.
Job 37:15 Do you know how God lays his command upon them and causes the lightning of his cloud to shine?
Job 37:16 Do you know the balancings of the clouds, the wondrous works of him who is perfect in knowledge,
Job 37:17 you whose garments are hot when the earth is still because of the south wind?
Job 37:18 Can you, like him, spread out the skies, hard as a cast metal mirror?
Job 37:19 Teach us what we shall say to him; we cannot draw up our case because of darkness.
Job 37:20 Shall it be told him that I would speak? Did a man ever wish that he would be swallowed up?
Job 37:21 "And now no one looks on the light when it is bright in the skies, when the wind has passed and
cleared them.
Job 37:22 Out of the north comes golden splendor; God is clothed with awesome majesty.
Job 37:23 The Almighty- we cannot find him; he is great in power; justice and abundant righteousness he will
not violate.
Job 37:24 Therefore men fear him; he does not regard any who are wise in their own conceit."
Job 38:1 Then the LORD answered Job out of the whirlwind and said:
Job 38:2 "Who is this that darkens counsel by words without knowledge?
Job 38:3 Dress for action like a man; I will question you, and you make it known to me.
Job 38:4 "Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? Tell me, if you have understanding.
Job 38:5 Who determined its measurements- surely you know! Or who stretched the line upon it?
Job 38:6 On what were its bases sunk, or who laid its cornerstone,
Job 38:7 when the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy?
Job 38:8 "Or who shut in the sea with doors when it burst out from the womb,
Job 38:9 when I made clouds its garment and thick darkness its swaddling band,
Job 38:10 and prescribed limits for it and set bars and doors,
Job 38:11 and said, 'Thus far shall you come, and no farther, and here shall your proud waves be stayed'?
Job 38:12 "Have you commanded the morning since your days began, and caused the dawn to know its place,
Job 38:13 that it might take hold of the skirts of the earth, and the wicked be shaken out of it?
Job 38:14 It is changed like clay under the seal, and its features stand out like a garment.Job 38:15 From the wicked their light is withheld, and their uplifted arm is broken.
Job 38:16 "Have you entered into the springs of the sea, or walked in the recesses of the deep?
Job 38:17 Have the gates of death been revealed to you, or have you seen the gates of deep darkness?
Job 38:18 Have you comprehended the expanse of the earth? Declare, if you know all this.
Job 38:19 "Where is the way to the dwelling of light, and where is the place of darkness,
Job 38:20 that you may take it to its territory and that you may discern the paths to its home?
Job 38:21 You know, for you were born then, and the number of your days is great!
Job 38:22 "Have you entered the storehouses of the snow, or have you seen the storehouses of the hail,
Job 38:23 which I have reserved for the time of trouble, for the day of battle and war?
Job 38:24 What is the way to the place where the light is distributed, or where the east wind is scattered upon
the earth?
Job 38:25 "Who has cleft a channel for the torrents of rain and a way for the thunderbolt,
Job 38:26 to bring rain on a land where no man is, on the desert in which there is no man,
Job 38:27 to satisfy the waste and desolate land, and to make the ground sprout with grass?
Job 38:28 "Has the rain a father, or who has begotten the drops of dew?
Job 38:29 From whose womb did the ice come forth, and who has given birth to the frost of heaven?
Job 38:30 The waters become hard like stone, and the face of the deep is frozen.
Job 38:31 "Can you bind the chains of the Pleiades or loose the cords of Orion?
Job 38:32 Can you lead forth the Mazzaroth1 in their season, or can you guide the Bear with its children?
Job 38:33 Do you know the ordinances of the heavens? Can you establish their rule on the earth?
Job 38:34 "Can you lift up your voice to the clouds, that a flood of waters may cover you?
Job 38:35 Can you send forth lightnings, that they may go and say to you, 'Here we are'?
Job 38:36 Who has put wisdom in the inward parts or given understanding to the mind?
Job 38:37 Who can number the clouds by wisdom? Or who can tilt the waterskins of the heavens,
Job 38:38 when the dust runs into a mass and the clods stick fast together?
Job 38:39 "Can you hunt the prey for the lion, or satisfy the appetite of the young lions,
Job 38:40 when they crouch in their dens or lie in wait in their thicket?
Job 38:41 Who provides for the raven its prey, when its young ones cry to God for help, and wander about for
lack of food?
Job 39:1 "Do you know when the mountain goats give birth? Do you observe the calving of the does?
Job 39:2 Can you number the months that they fulfill, and do you know the time when they give birth,
Job 39:3 when they crouch, bring forth their offspring, and are delivered of their young?
Job 39:4 Their young ones become strong; they grow up in the open; they go out and do not return to them.
Job 39:5 "Who has let the wild donkey go free? Who has loosed the bonds of the swift donkey,
Job 39:6 to whom I have given the arid plain for his home and the salt land for his dwelling place?
Job 39:7 He scorns the tumult of the city; he hears not the shouts of the driver.
Job 39:8 He ranges the mountains as his pasture, and he searches after every green thing.
Job 39:9 "Is the wild ox willing to serve you? Will he spend the night at your manger?
Job 39:10 Can you bind him in the furrow with ropes, or will he harrow the valleys after you?
Job 39:11 Will you depend on him because his strength is great, and will you leave to him your labor?
Job 39:12 Do you have faith in him that he will return your grain and gather it to your threshing floor?
Job 39:13 "The wings of the ostrich wave proudly, but are they the pinions and plumage of love?
Job 39:14 For she leaves her eggs to the earth and lets them be warmed on the ground,
Job 39:15 forgetting that a foot may crush them and that the wild beast may trample them.
Job 39:16 She deals cruelly with her young, as if they were not hers; though her labor be in vain, yet she has no
fear,
Job 39:17 because God has made her forget wisdom and given her no share in understanding.
Job 39:18 When she rouses herself to flee, she laughs at the horse and his rider.
Job 39:19 "Do you give the horse his might? Do you clothe his neck with a mane?
Job 39:20 Do you make him leap like the locust? His majestic snorting is terrifying.
Job 39:21 He paws in the valley and exults in his strength; he goes out to meet the weapons.
Job 39:22 He laughs at fear and is not dismayed; he does not turn back from the sword.
Job 39:23 Upon him rattle the quiver, the flashing spear and the javelin.
Job 39:24 With fierceness and rage he swallows the ground; he cannot stand still at the sound of the trumpet.
Job 39:25 When the trumpet sounds, he says 'Aha!' He smells the battle from afar, the thunder of the captains,
and the shouting.
Job 39:26 "Is it by your understanding that the hawk soars and spreads his wings toward the south?
Job 39:27 Is it at your command that the eagle mounts up and makes his nest on high?
Job 39:28 On the rock he dwells and makes his home, on the rocky crag and stronghold.Job 39:29 From there he spies out the prey; his eyes behold it afar off.
Job 39:30 His young ones suck up blood, and where the slain are, there is he."
Job 40:1 And the LORD said to Job:
Job 40:2 "Shall a faultfinder contend with the Almighty? He who argues with God, let him answer it."
Job 40:3 Then Job answered the LORD and said:
Job 40:4 "Behold, I am of small account; what shall I answer you? I lay my hand on my mouth.
Job 40:5 I have spoken once, and I will not answer; twice, but I will proceed no further."
Job 40:6 Then the LORD answered Job out of the whirlwind and said:
Job 40:7 "Dress for action like a man; I will question you, and you make it known to me.
Job 40:8 Will you even put me in the wrong? Will you condemn me that you may be in the right?
Job 40:9 Have you an arm like God, and can you thunder with a voice like his?
Job 40:10 "Adorn yourself with majesty and dignity; clothe yourself with glory and splendor.
Job 40:11 Pour out the overflowings of your anger, and look on everyone who is proud and abase him.
Job 40:12 Look on everyone who is proud and bring him low and tread down the wicked where they stand.
Job 40:13 Hide them all in the dust together; bind their faces in the world below.
Job 40:14 Then will I also acknowledge to you that your own right hand can save you.
Job 40:15 "Behold, Behemoth, which I made as I made you; he eats grass like an ox.
Job 40:16 Behold, his strength in his loins, and his power in the muscles of his belly.
Job 40:17 He makes his tail stiff like a cedar; the sinews of his thighs are knit together.
Job 40:18 His bones are tubes of bronze, his limbs like bars of iron.
Job 40:19 "He is the first of the works of God; let him who made him bring near his sword!
Job 40:20 For the mountains yield food for him where all the wild beasts play.
Job 40:21 Under the lotus plants he lies, in the shelter of the reeds and in the marsh.
Job 40:22 For his shade the lotus trees cover him; the willows of the brook surround him.
Job 40:23 Behold, if the river is turbulent he is not frightened; he is confident though Jordan rushes against his
mouth.
Job 40:24 Can one take him by his eyes, or pierce his nose with a snare?
Job 41:1 "Can you draw out Leviathan with a fishhook or press down his tongue with a cord?
Job 41:2 Can you put a rope in his nose or pierce his jaw with a hook?
Job 41:3 Will he make many pleas to you? Will he speak to you soft words?
Job 41:4 Will he make a covenant with you to take him for your servant forever?
Job 41:5 Will you play with him as with a bird, or will you put him on a leash for your girls?
Job 41:6 Will traders bargain over him? Will they divide him up among the merchants?
Job 41:7 Can you fill his skin with harpoons or his head with fishing spears?
Job 41:8 Lay your hands on him; remember the battle- you will not do it again!
Job 41:9 Behold, the hope of a man is false; he is laid low even at the sight of him.
Job 41:10 No one is so fierce that he dares to stir him up. Who then is he who can stand before me?
Job 41:11 Who has first given to me, that I should repay him? Whatever is under the whole heaven is mine.
Job 41:12 "I will not keep silence concerning his limbs, or his mighty strength, or his goodly frame.
Job 41:13 Who can strip off his outer garment? Who would come near him with a bridle?
Job 41:14 Who can open the doors of his face? Around his teeth is terror.
Job 41:15 His back is made of rows of shields, shut up closely as with a seal.
Job 41:16 One is so near to another that no air can come between them.
Job 41:17 They are joined one to another; they clasp each other and cannot be separated.
Job 41:18 His sneezings flash forth light, and his eyes are like the eyelids of the dawn.
Job 41:19 Out of his mouth go flaming torches; sparks of fire leap forth.
Job 41:20 Out of his nostrils comes forth smoke, as from a boiling pot and burning rushes.
Job 41:21 His breath kindles coals, and a flame comes forth from his mouth.
Job 41:22 In his neck abides strength, and terror dances before him.
Job 41:23 The folds of his flesh stick together, firmly cast on him and immovable.
Job 41:24 His heart is hard as a stone, hard as the lower millstone.
Job 41:25 When he raises himself up the mighty are afraid; at the crashing they are beside themselves.
Job 41:26 Though the sword reaches him, it does not avail, nor the spear, the dart, or the javelin.
Job 41:27 He counts iron as straw, and bronze as rotten wood.
Job 41:28 The arrow cannot make him flee; for him sling stones are turned to stubble.
Job 41:29 Clubs are counted as stubble; he laughs at the rattle of javelins.
Job 41:30 His underparts are like sharp potsherds; he spreads himself like a threshing sledge on the mire.
Job 41:31 He makes the deep boil like a pot; he makes the sea like a pot of ointment.
Job 41:32 Behind him he leaves a shining wake; one would think the deep to be white-haired.Job 41:33 On earth there is not his like, a creature without fear.
Job 41:34 He sees everything that is high; he is king over all the sons of pride."
Job 42:1 Then Job answered the LORD and said:
Job 42:2 "I know that you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be thwarted.
Job 42:3 'Who is this that hides counsel without knowledge?' Therefore I have uttered what I did not understand,
things too wonderful for me, which I did not know.
Job 42:4 'Hear, and I will speak; I will question you, and you make it known to me.'
Job 42:5 I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees you;
Job 42:6 therefore I despise myself, and repent in dust and ashes."
Job 42:7 After the LORD had spoken these words to Job, the LORD said to Eliphaz the Temanite: "My anger
burns against you and against your two friends, for you have not spoken of me what is right, as my servant Job
has.
Job 42:8 Now therefore take seven bulls and seven rams and go to my servant Job and offer up a burnt offering
for yourselves. And my servant Job shall pray for you, for I will accept his prayer not to deal with you according
to your folly. For you have not spoken of me what is right, as my servant Job has."
Job 42:9 So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went and did what the
LORD had told them, and the LORD accepted Job's prayer.
Job 42:10 And the LORD restored the fortunes of Job, when he had prayed for his friends. And the LORD gave
Job twice as much as he had before.
Job 42:11 Then came to him all his brothers and sisters and all who had known him before, and ate bread with
him in his house. And they showed him sympathy and comforted him for all the evil that the LORD had brought
upon him. And each of them gave him a piece of money and a ring of gold.
Job 42:12 And the LORD blessed the latter days of Job more than his beginning. And he had 14,000 sheep,
6,000 camels, 1,000 yoke of oxen, and 1,000 female donkeys.
Job 42:13 He had also seven sons and three daughters.
Job 42:14 And he called the name of the first daughter Jemimah, and the name of the second Keziah, and the
name of the third Keren-happuch.
Job 42:15 And in all the land there were no women so beautiful as Job's daughters. And their father gave them
an inheritance among their brothers.
Job 42:16 And after this Job lived 140 years, and saw his sons, and his sons' sons, four generations.
Job 42:17 And Job died, an old man, and full of days.
Psa 1:1 Blessed is the manwho walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits
in the seat of scoffers;
Psa 1:2 but his delight is in the law of the LORD, and on his law he meditates day and night.
Psa 1:3 He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not
wither. In all that he does, he prospers.
Psa 1:4 The wicked are not so, but are like chaff that the wind drives away.
Psa 1:5 Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous;
Psa 1:6 for the LORD knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish.
Psa 2:1 Why do the nations rageand the peoples plot in vain?
Psa 2:2 The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the LORD and
against his anointed, saying,
Psa 2:3 "Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us."
Psa 2:4 He who sits in the heavens laughs; the Lord holds them in derision.
Psa 2:5 Then he will speak to them in his wrath, and terrify them in his fury, saying,
Psa 2:6 "As for me, I have set my King on Zion, my holy hill."
Psa 2:7 I will tell of the decree: The LORD said to me, "You are my Son; today I have begotten you.
Psa 2:8 Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, and the ends of the earth your possession.
Psa 2:9 You shall break them with a rod of iron and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel."
Psa 2:10 Now therefore, O kings, be wise; be warned, O rulers of the earth.
Psa 2:11 Serve the LORD with fear, and rejoice with trembling.
Psa 2:12 Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are
all who take refuge in him.
Psa 3:1 A PSALM OF DAVID, WHEN HE FLED FROM ABSALOM HIS SON. O LORD, how many are my foes!
Many are rising against me;
Psa 3:2 many are saying of my soul, there is no salvation for him in God. Selah
Psa 3:3 But you, O LORD, are a shield about me, my glory, and the lifter of my head.
Psa 3:4 I cried aloud to the LORD, and he answered me from his holy hill. Selah
Psa 3:5 I lay down and slept; I woke again, for the LORD sustained me.Psa 3:6 I will not be afraid of many thousands of people who have set themselves against me all around.
Psa 3:7 Arise, O LORD! Save me, O my God! For you strike all my enemies on the cheek; you break the teeth
of the wicked.
Psa 3:8 Salvation belongs to the LORD; your blessing be on your people! Selah
Psa 4:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: WITH STRINGED INSTRUMENTS. A PSALM OF DAVID. Answer me when
I call, O God of my righteousness! You have given me relief when I was in distress. Be gracious to me and hear
my prayer!
Psa 4:2 O men, how long shall my honor be turned into shame? How long will you love vain words and seek
after lies? Selah
Psa 4:3 But know that the LORD has set apart the godly for himself; the LORD hears when I call to him.
Psa 4:4 Be angry, and do not sin; ponder in your own hearts on your beds, and be silent. Selah
Psa 4:5 Offer right sacrifices, and put your trust in the LORD.
Psa 4:6 There are many who say, "Who will show us some good? Lift up the light of your face upon us, O
LORD!"
Psa 4:7 You have put more joy in my heart than they have when their grain and wine abound.
Psa 4:8 In peace I will both lie down and sleep; for you alone, O LORD, make me dwell in safety.
Psa 5:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: FOR THE FLUTES. A PSALM OF DAVID. Give ear to my words, O LORD;
consider my groaning.
Psa 5:2 Give attention to the sound of my cry, my King and my God, for to you do I pray.
Psa 5:3 O LORD, in the morning you hear my voice; in the morning I prepare a sacrifice for you and watch.
Psa 5:4 For you are not a God who delights in wickedness; evil may not dwell with you.
Psa 5:5 The boastful shall not stand before your eyes; you hate all evildoers.
Psa 5:6 You destroy those who speak lies; the LORD abhors the bloodthirsty and deceitful man.
Psa 5:7 But I, through the abundance of your steadfast love, will enter your house. I will bow down toward your
holy temple in the fear of you.
Psa 5:8 Lead me, O LORD, in your righteousness because of my enemies; make your way straight before me.
Psa 5:9 For there is no truth in their mouth; their inmost self is destruction; their throat is an open grave; they
flatter with their tongue.
Psa 5:10 Make them bear their guilt, O God; let them fall by their own counsels; because of the abundance of
their transgressions cast them out, for they have rebelled against you.
Psa 5:11 But let all who take refuge in you rejoice; let them ever sing for joy, and spread your protection over
them, that those who love your name may exult in you.
Psa 5:12 For you bless the righteous, O LORD; you cover him with favor as with a shield.
Psa 6:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: WITH STRINGED INSTRUMENTS; ACCORDING TO THE SHEMINITH. A
PSALM OF DAVID. O LORD, rebuke me not in your anger, nor discipline me in your wrath.
Psa 6:2 Be gracious to me, O LORD, for I am languishing; heal me, O LORD, for my bones are troubled.
Psa 6:3 My soul also is greatly troubled. But you, O LORD- how long?
Psa 6:4 Turn, O LORD, deliver my life; save me for the sake of your steadfast love.
Psa 6:5 For in death there is no remembrance of you; in Sheol who will give you praise?
Psa 6:6 I am weary with my moaning; every night I flood my bed with tears; I drench my couch with my weeping.
Psa 6:7 My eye wastes away because of grief; it grows weak because of all my foes.
Psa 6:8 Depart from me, all you workers of evil, for the LORD has heard the sound of my weeping.
Psa 6:9 The LORD has heard my plea; the LORD accepts my prayer.
Psa 6:10 All my enemies shall be ashamed and greatly troubled; they shall turn back and be put to shame in a
moment.
Psa 7:1 A SHIGGAION OF DAVID, WHICH HE SANG TO THE LORD CONCERNING THE WORDS OF CUSH,
A BENJAMINITE. O LORD my God, in you do I take refuge; save me from all my pursuers and deliver me,
Psa 7:2 lest like a lion they tear my soul apart, rending it in pieces, with none to deliver.
Psa 7:3 O LORD my God, if I have done this, if there is wrong in my hands,
Psa 7:4 if I have repaid my friend with evil or plundered my enemy without cause,
Psa 7:5 let the enemy pursue my soul and overtake it, and let him trample my life to the ground and lay my glory
in the dust. Selah
Psa 7:6 Arise, O LORD, in your anger; lift yourself up against the fury of my enemies; awake for me; you have
appointed a judgment.
Psa 7:7 Let the assembly of the peoples be gathered about you; over it return on high.
Psa 7:8 The LORD judges the peoples; judge me, O LORD, according to my righteousness and according to
the integrity that is in me.
Psa 7:9 Oh, let the evil of the wicked come to an end, and may you establish the righteous- you who test the
minds and hearts, O righteous God!Psa 7:10 My shield is with God, who saves the upright in heart.
Psa 7:11 God is a righteous judge, and a God who feels indignation every day.
Psa 7:12 If a man does not repent, God will whet his sword; he has bent and readied his bow;
Psa 7:13 he has prepared for him his deadly weapons, making his arrows fiery shafts.
Psa 7:14 Behold, the wicked man conceives evil and is pregnant with mischief and gives birth to lies.
Psa 7:15 He makes a pit, digging it out, and falls into the hole that he has made.
Psa 7:16 His mischief returns upon his own head, and on his own skull his violence descends.
Psa 7:17 I will give to the LORD the thanks due to his righteousness, and I will sing praise to the name of the
LORD, the Most High.
Psa 8:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO THE GITTITH. A PSALM OF DAVID. O LORD, our Lord,
how majestic is your name in all the earth! You have set your glory above the heavens.
Psa 8:2 Out of the mouth of babes and infants, you have established strength because of your foes, to still the
enemy and the avenger.
Psa 8:3 When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have set in
place,
Psa 8:4 what is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you care for him?
Psa 8:5 Yet you have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings and crowned him with glory and honor.
Psa 8:6 You have given him dominion over the works of your hands; you have put all things under his feet,
Psa 8:7 all sheep and oxen, and also the beasts of the field,
Psa 8:8 the birds of the heavens, and the fish of the sea, whatever passes along the paths of the seas.
Psa 8:9 O LORD, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth!
Psa 9:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO MUTH-LABBEN. A PSALM OF DAVID. I will give thanks
to the LORD with my whole heart; I will recount all of your wonderful deeds.
Psa 9:2 I will be glad and exult in you; I will sing praise to your name, O Most High.
Psa 9:3 When my enemies turn back, they stumble and perish before your presence.
Psa 9:4 For you have maintained my just cause; you have sat on the throne, giving righteous judgment.
Psa 9:5 You have rebuked the nations; you have made the wicked perish; you have blotted out their name
forever and ever.
Psa 9:6 The enemy came to an end in everlasting ruins; their cities you rooted out; the very memory of them
has perished.
Psa 9:7 But the LORD sits enthroned forever; he has established his throne for justice,
Psa 9:8 and he judges the world with righteousness; he judges the peoples with uprightness.
Psa 9:9 The LORD is a stronghold for the oppressed, a stronghold in times of trouble.
Psa 9:10 And those who know your name put their trust in you, for you, O LORD, have not forsaken those who
seek you.
Psa 9:11 Sing praises to the LORD, who sits enthroned in Zion! Tell among the peoples his deeds!
Psa 9:12 For he who avenges blood is mindful of them; he does not forget the cry of the afflicted.
Psa 9:13 Be gracious to me, O LORD! See my affliction from those who hate me, O you who lift me up from the
gates of death,
Psa 9:14 that I may recount all your praises, that in the gates of the daughter of Zion I may rejoice in your
salvation.
Psa 9:15 The nations have sunk in the pit that they made; in the net that they hid their own foot has been
caught.
Psa 9:16 The LORD has made himself known; he has executed judgment; the wicked are snared in the work of
their own hands. Higgaion. Selah
Psa 9:17 The wicked shall return to Sheol, all the nations that forget God.
Psa 9:18 For the needy shall not always be forgotten, and the hope of the poor shall not perish forever.
Psa 9:19 Arise, O LORD! Let not man prevail; let the nations be judged before you!
Psa 9:20 Put them in fear, O LORD! Let the nations know that they are but men! Selah
Psa 10:1 Why, O LORD, do you stand afar off? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble?
Psa 10:2 In arrogance the wicked hotly pursue the poor; let them be caught in the schemes that they have
devised.
Psa 10:3 For the wicked boasts of the desires of his soul, and the one greedy for gain curses and renounces the
LORD.
Psa 10:4 In the pride of his face the wicked does not seek him; all his thoughts are, "There is no God."
Psa 10:5 His ways prosper at all times; your judgments are on high, out of his sight; as for all his foes, he puffs
at them.
Psa 10:6 He says in his heart, "I shall not be moved; throughout all generations I shall not meet adversity."
Psa 10:7 His mouth is filled with cursing and deceit and oppression; under his tongue are mischief and iniquity.Psa 10:8 He sits in ambush in the villages; in hiding places he murders the innocent. His eyes stealthily watch
for the helpless;
Psa 10:9 he lurks in ambush like a lion in his thicket; he lurks that he may seize the poor; he seizes the poor
when he draws him into his net.
Psa 10:10 The helpless are crushed, sink down, and fall by his might.
Psa 10:11 He says in his heart, "God has forgotten, he has hidden his face, he will never see it."
Psa 10:12 Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up your hand; forget not the afflicted.
Psa 10:13 Why does the wicked renounce God and say in his heart, "You will not call to account"?
Psa 10:14 But you do see, for you note mischief and vexation, that you may take it into your hands; to you the
helpless commits himself; you have been the helper of the fatherless.
Psa 10:15 Break the arm of the wicked and evildoer; call his wickedness to account till you find none.
Psa 10:16 The LORD is king forever and ever; the nations perish from his land.
Psa 10:17 O LORD, you hear the desire of the afflicted; you will strengthen their heart; you will incline your ear
Psa 10:18 to do justice to the fatherless and the oppressed, so that man who is of the earth may strike terror no
more.
Psa 11:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. OF DAVID.In the LORD I take refuge; how can you say to my soul, "Flee
like a bird to your mountain,
Psa 11:2 for behold, the wicked bend the bow; they have fitted their arrow to the string to shoot in the dark at
the upright in heart;
Psa 11:3 if the foundations are destroyed, what can the righteous do?"
Psa 11:4 The LORD is in his holy temple; the LORD's throne is in heaven; his eyes see, his eyelids test, the
children of man.
Psa 11:5 The LORD tests the righteous, but his soul hates the wicked and the one who loves violence.
Psa 11:6 Let him rain coals on the wicked; fire and sulfur and a scorching wind shall be the portion of their cup.
Psa 11:7 For the LORD is righteous; he loves righteous deeds; the upright shall behold his face.
Psa 12:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO THE SHEMINITH. A PSALM OF DAVID. Save, O LORD,
for the godly one is gone; for the faithful have vanished from among the children of man.
Psa 12:2 Everyone utters lies to his neighbor; with flattering lips and a double heart they speak.
Psa 12:3 May the LORD cut off all flattering lips, the tongue that makes great boasts,
Psa 12:4 those who say, "With our tongue we will prevail, our lips are with us; who is master over us?"
Psa 12:5 "Because the poor are plundered, because the needy groan, I will now arise," says the LORD; "I will
place him in the safety for which he longs."
Psa 12:6 The words of the LORD are pure words, like silver refined in a furnace on the ground, purified seven
times.
Psa 12:7 You, O LORD, will keep them; you will guard us from this generation forever.
Psa 12:8 On every side the wicked prowl, as vileness is exalted among the children of man.
Psa 13:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF DAVID. How long, O LORD? Will you forget me forever?
How long will you hide your face from me?
Psa 13:2 How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day? How long shall my
enemy be exalted over me?
Psa 13:3 Consider and answer me, O LORD my God; light up my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death,
Psa 13:4 lest my enemy say, "I have prevailed over him," lest my foes rejoice because I am shaken.
Psa 13:5 But I have trusted in your steadfast love; my heart shall rejoice in your salvation.
Psa 13:6 I will sing to the LORD, because he has dealt bountifully with me.
Psa 14:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. OF DAVID. The fool says in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt,
they do abominable deeds, there is none who does good.
Psa 14:2 The LORD looks down from heaven on the children of man, to see if there are any who understand,
who seek after God.
Psa 14:3 They have all turned aside; together they have become corrupt; there is none who does good, not
even one.
Psa 14:4 Have they no knowledge, all the evildoers who eat up my people as they eat bread and do not call
upon the LORD?
Psa 14:5 There they are in great terror, for God is with the generation of the righteous.
Psa 14:6 You would shame the plans of the poor, but the LORD is his refuge.
Psa 14:7 Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion! When the LORD restores the fortunes of his
people, let Jacob rejoice, let Israel be glad.
Psa 15:1 A PSALM OF DAVID.O LORD, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill?
Psa 15:2 He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart;
Psa 15:3 who does not slander with his tongue and does no evil to his neighbor, nor takes up a reproachagainst his friend;
Psa 15:4 in whose eyes a vile person is despised, but who honors those who fear the LORD; who swears to his
own hurt and does not change;
Psa 15:5 who does not put out his money at interest and does not take a bribe against the innocent. He who
does these things shall never be moved.
Psa 16:1 A MIKTAM OF DAVID.Preserve me, O God, for in you I take refuge.
Psa 16:2 I say to the LORD, "You are my Lord; I have no good apart from you."
Psa 16:3 As for the saints in the land, they are the excellent ones, in whom is all my delight.
Psa 16:4 The sorrows of those who run after another god shall multiply; their drink offerings of blood I will not
pour out or take their names on my lips.
Psa 16:5 The LORD is my chosen portion and my cup; you hold my lot.
Psa 16:6 The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places; indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance.
Psa 16:7 I bless the LORD who gives me counsel; in the night also my heart instructs me.
Psa 16:8 I have set the LORD always before me; because he is at my right hand, I shall not be shaken.
Psa 16:9 Therefore my heart is glad, and my whole being rejoices; my flesh also dwells secure.
Psa 16:10 For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol, or let your holy one see corruption.
Psa 16:11 You make known to me the path of life; in your presence there is fullness of joy; at your right hand
are pleasures forevermore.
Psa 17:1 A PRAYER OF DAVID.Hear a just cause, O LORD; attend to my cry! Give ear to my prayer from lips
free of deceit!
Psa 17:2 From your presence let my vindication come! Let your eyes behold the right!
Psa 17:3 You have tried my heart, you have visited me by night, you have tested me, and you will find nothing; I
have purposed that my mouth will not transgress.
Psa 17:4 With regard to the works of man, by the word of your lips I have avoided the ways of the violent.
Psa 17:5 My steps have held fast to your paths; my feet have not slipped.
Psa 17:6 I call upon you, for you will answer me, O God; incline your ear to me; hear my words.
Psa 17:7 Wondrously show your steadfast love, O Savior of those who seek refuge from their adversaries at
your right hand.
Psa 17:8 Keep me as the apple of your eye; hide me in the shadow of your wings,
Psa 17:9 from the wicked who do me violence, my deadly enemies who surround me.
Psa 17:10 They close their hearts to pity; with their mouths they speak arrogantly.
Psa 17:11 They have now surrounded our steps; they set their eyes to cast us to the ground.
Psa 17:12 He is like a lion eager to tear, as a young lion lurking in ambush.
Psa 17:13 Arise, O LORD! Confront him, subdue him! Deliver my soul from the wicked by your sword,
Psa 17:14 from men by your hand, O LORD, from men of the world whose portion is in this life. You fill their
womb with treasure; they are satisfied with children, and they leave their abundance to their infants.
Psa 17:15 As for me, I shall behold your face in righteousness; when I awake, I shall be satisfied with your
likeness.
Psa 18:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF DAVID, THE SERVANT OF THE LORD, WHO ADDRESSED
THE WORDS OF THIS SONG TO THE LORD ON THE DAY WHEN THE LORD RESCUED HIM FROM THE
HAND OF ALL HIS ENEMIES, AND FROM THE HAND OF SAUL. HE SAID: I love you, O LORD, my strength.
Psa 18:2 The LORD is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, my
shield, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold.
Psa 18:3 I call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies.
Psa 18:4 The cords of death encompassed me; the torrents of destruction assailed me;
Psa 18:5 the cords of Sheol entangled me; the snares of death confronted me.
Psa 18:6 In my distress I called upon the LORD; to my God I cried for help. From his temple he heard my voice,
and my cry to him reached his ears.
Psa 18:7 Then the earth reeled and rocked; the foundations also of the mountains trembled and quaked,
because he was angry.
Psa 18:8 Smoke went up from his nostrils, and devouring fire from his mouth; glowing coals flamed forth from
him.
Psa 18:9 He bowed the heavens and came down; thick darkness was under his feet.
Psa 18:10 He rode on a cherub and flew; he came swiftly on the wings of the wind.
Psa 18:11 He made darkness his covering, his canopy around him, thick clouds dark with water.
Psa 18:12 Out of the brightness before him hailstones and coals of fire broke through his clouds.
Psa 18:13 The LORD also thundered in the heavens, and the Most High uttered his voice, hailstones and coals
of fire.
Psa 18:14 And he sent out his arrows and scattered them; he flashed forth lightnings and routed them.Psa 18:15 Then the channels of the sea were seen, and the foundations of the world were laid bare at your
rebuke, O LORD, at the blast of the breath of your nostrils.
Psa 18:16 He sent from on high, he took me; he drew me out of many waters.
Psa 18:17 He rescued me from my strong enemy and from those who hated me, for they were too mighty for
me.
Psa 18:18 They confronted me in the day of my calamity, but the LORD was my support.
Psa 18:19 He brought me out into a broad place; he rescued me, because he delighted in me.
Psa 18:20 The LORD dealt with me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands he
rewarded me.
Psa 18:21 For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly departed from my God.
Psa 18:22 For all his rules were before me, and his statutes I did not put away from me.
Psa 18:23 I was blameless before him, and I kept myself from my guilt.
Psa 18:24 So the LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my
hands in his sight.
Psa 18:25 With the merciful you show yourself merciful; with the blameless man you show yourself blameless;
Psa 18:26 with the purified you show yourself pure; and with the crooked you make yourself seem tortuous.
Psa 18:27 For you save a humble people, but the haughty eyes you bring down.
Psa 18:28 For it is you who light my lamp; the LORD my God lightens my darkness.
Psa 18:29 For by you I can run against a troop, and by my God I can leap over a wall.
Psa 18:30 This God- his way is perfect; the word of the LORD proves true; he is a shield for all those who take
refuge in him.
Psa 18:31 For who is God, but the LORD? And who is a rock, except our God?-
Psa 18:32 the God who equipped me with strength and made my way blameless.
Psa 18:33 He made my feet like the feet of a deer and set me secure on the heights.
Psa 18:34 He trains my hands for war, so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze.
Psa 18:35 You have given me the shield of your salvation, and your right hand supported me, and your
gentleness made me great.
Psa 18:36 You gave a wide place for my steps under me, and my feet did not slip.
Psa 18:37 I pursued my enemies and overtook them, and did not turn back till they were consumed.
Psa 18:38 I thrust them through, so that they were not able to rise; they fell under my feet.
Psa 18:39 For you equipped me with strength for the battle; you made those who rise against me sink under
me.
Psa 18:40 You made my enemies turn their backs to me, and those who hated me I destroyed.
Psa 18:41 They cried for help, but there was none to save; they cried to the LORD, but he did not answer them.
Psa 18:42 I beat them fine as dust before the wind; I cast them out like the mire of the streets.
Psa 18:43 You delivered me from strife with the people; you made me the head of the nations; people whom I
had not known served me.
Psa 18:44 As soon as they heard of me they obeyed me; foreigners came cringing to me.
Psa 18:45 Foreigners lost heart and came trembling out of their fortresses.
Psa 18:46 The LORD lives, and blessed be my rock, and exalted be the God of my salvationPsa 18:47 the God who gave me vengeance and subdued peoples under me,
Psa 18:48 who delivered me from my enemies; yes, you exalted me above those who rose against me; you
rescued me from the man of violence.
Psa 18:49 For this I will praise you, O LORD, among the nations, and sing to your name.
Psa 18:50 Great salvation he brings to his king, and shows steadfast love to his anointed, to David and his
offspring forever.
Psa 19:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF DAVID. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky
above proclaims his handiwork.
Psa 19:2 Day to day pours out speech, and night to night reveals knowledge.
Psa 19:3 There is no speech, nor are there words, whose voice is not heard.
Psa 19:4 Their measuring line goes out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them he
has set a tent for the sun,
Psa 19:5 which comes out like a bridegroom leaving his chamber, and, like a strong man, runs its course with
joy.
Psa 19:6 Its rising is from the end of the heavens, and its circuit to the end of them, and there is nothing hidden
from its heat.
Psa 19:7 The law of the LORD is perfect, reviving the soul; the testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the
simple;
Psa 19:8 the precepts of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart; the commandment of the LORD is pure,enlightening the eyes;
Psa 19:9 the fear of the LORD is clean, enduring forever; the rules of the LORD are true, and righteous
altogether.
Psa 19:10 More to be desired are they than gold, even much fine gold; sweeter also than honey and drippings
of the honeycomb.
Psa 19:11 Moreover, by them is your servant warned; in keeping them there is great reward.
Psa 19:12 Who can discern his errors? Declare me innocent from hidden faults.
Psa 19:13 Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion over me! Then I
shall be blameless, and innocent of great transgression.
Psa 19:14 Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O LORD, my
rock and my redeemer.
Psa 20:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF DAVID. May the LORD answer you in the day of trouble! May
the name of the God of Jacob protect you!
Psa 20:2 May he send you help from the sanctuary and give you support from Zion!
Psa 20:3 May he remember all your offerings and regard with favor your burnt sacrifices! Selah
Psa 20:4 May he grant you your heart's desire and fulfill all your plans!
Psa 20:5 May we shout for joy over your salvation, and in the name of our God set up our banners! May the
LORD fulfill all your petitions!
Psa 20:6 Now I know that the LORD saves his anointed; he will answer him from his holy heaven with the
saving might of his right hand.
Psa 20:7 Some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we trust in the name of the LORD our God.
Psa 20:8 They collapse and fall, but we rise and stand upright.
Psa 20:9 O LORD, save the king! May he answer us when we call.
Psa 21:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF DAVID. O LORD, in your strength the king rejoices, and in
your salvation how greatly he exults!
Psa 21:2 You have given him his heart's desire and have not withheld the request of his lips. Selah
Psa 21:3 For you meet him with rich blessings; you set a crown of fine gold upon his head.
Psa 21:4 He asked life of you; you gave it to him, length of days forever and ever.
Psa 21:5 His glory is great through your salvation; splendor and majesty you bestow on him.
Psa 21:6 For you make him most blessed forever; you make him glad with the joy of your presence.
Psa 21:7 For the king trusts in the LORD, and through the steadfast love of the Most High he shall not be
moved.
Psa 21:8 Your hand will find out all your enemies; your right hand will find out those who hate you.
Psa 21:9 You will make them as a blazing oven when you appear. The LORD will swallow them up in his wrath,
and fire will consume them.
Psa 21:10 You will destroy their descendants from the earth, and their offspring from among the children of
man.
Psa 21:11 Though they plan evil against you, though they devise mischief, they will not succeed.
Psa 21:12 For you will put them to flight; you will aim at their faces with your bows.
Psa 21:13 Be exalted, O LORD, in your strength! We will sing and praise your power.
Psa 22:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO THE DOE OF THE DAWN. A PSALM OF DAVID. My
God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me, from the words of my groaning?
Psa 22:2 O my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer, and by night, but I find no rest.
Psa 22:3 Yet you are holy, enthroned on the praises of Israel.
Psa 22:4 In you our fathers trusted; they trusted, and you delivered them.
Psa 22:5 To you they cried and were rescued; in you they trusted and were not put to shame.
Psa 22:6 But I am a worm and not a man, scorned by mankind and despised by the people.
Psa 22:7 All who see me mock me; they make mouths at me; they wag their heads;
Psa 22:8 "He trusts in the LORD; let him deliver him; let him rescue him, for he delights in him!"
Psa 22:9 Yet you are he who took me from the womb; you made me trust you at my mother's breasts.
Psa 22:10 On you was I cast from my birth, and from my mother's womb you have been my God.
Psa 22:11 Be not far from me, for trouble is near, and there is none to help.
Psa 22:12 Many bulls encompass me; strong bulls of Bashan surround me;
Psa 22:13 they open wide their mouths at me, like a ravening and roaring lion.
Psa 22:14 I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint; my heart is like wax; it is melted within
my breast;
Psa 22:15 my strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue sticks to my jaws; you lay me in the dust of
death.
Psa 22:16 For dogs encompass me; a company of evildoers encircles me; they have pierced my hands andfeetPsa 22:17 I can count all my bones- they stare and gloat over me;
Psa 22:18 they divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots.
Psa 22:19 But you, O LORD, do not be far off! O you my help, come quickly to my aid!
Psa 22:20 Deliver my soul from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog!
Psa 22:21 Save me from the mouth of the lion! You have rescued me from the horns of the wild oxen!
Psa 22:22 I will tell of your name to my brothers; in the midst of the congregation I will praise you:
Psa 22:23 You who fear the LORD, praise him! All you offspring of Jacob, glorify him, and stand in awe of him,
all you offspring of Israel!
Psa 22:24 For he has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted, and he has not hidden his face from
him, but has heard, when he cried to him.
Psa 22:25 From you comes my praise in the great congregation; my vows I will perform before those who fear
him.
Psa 22:26 The afflicted shall eat and be satisfied; those who seek him shall praise the LORD! May your hearts
live forever!
Psa 22:27 All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the LORD, and all the families of the nations
shall worship before you.
Psa 22:28 For kingship belongs to the LORD, and he rules over the nations.
Psa 22:29 All the prosperous of the earth eat and worship; before him shall bow all who go down to the dust,
even the one who could not keep himself alive.
Psa 22:30 Posterity shall serve him; it shall be told of the Lord to the coming generation;
Psa 22:31 they shall come and proclaim his righteousness to a people yet unborn, that he has done it.
Psa 23:1 A PSALM OF DAVID.The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want.
Psa 23:2 He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters.
Psa 23:3 He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake.
Psa 23:4 Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me;
your rod and your staff, they comfort me.
Psa 23:5 You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies; you anoint my head with oil; my cup
overflows.
Psa 23:6 Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me e all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of
the LORD forever.
Psa 24:1 A PSALM OF DAVID. The earth is the LORD's and the fullness thereof, the world and those who dwell
therein,
Psa 24:2 for he has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the rivers.
Psa 24:3 Who shall ascend the hill of the LORD? And who shall stand in his holy place?
Psa 24:4 He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not
swear deceitfully.
Psa 24:5 He will receive blessing from the LORD and righteousness from the God of his salvation.
Psa 24:6 Such is the generation of those who seek him, who seek the face of the God of Jacob. Selah
Psa 24:7 Lift up your heads, O gates! And be lifted up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in.
Psa 24:8 Who is this King of glory? The LORD, strong and mighty, the LORD, mighty in battle!
Psa 24:9 Lift up your heads, O gates! And lift them up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in.
Psa 24:10 Who is this King of glory? The LORD of hosts, he is the King of glory! Selah
Psa 25:1 OF DAVID.To you, O LORD, I lift up my soul.
Psa 25:2 O my God, in you I trust; let me not be put to shame; let not my enemies exult over me.
Psa 25:3 Indeed, none who wait for you shall be put to shame; they shall be ashamed who are wantonly
treacherous.
Psa 25:4 Make me to know your ways, O LORD; teach me your paths.
Psa 25:5 Lead me in your truth and teach me, for you are the God of my salvation; for you I wait all the day
long.
Psa 25:6 Remember your mercy, O LORD, and your steadfast love, for they have been from of old.
Psa 25:7 Remember not the sins of my youth or my transgressions; according to your steadfast love remember
me, for the sake of your goodness, O LORD!
Psa 25:8 Good and upright is the LORD; therefore he instructs sinners in the way.
Psa 25:9 He leads the humble in what is right, and teaches the humble his way.
Psa 25:10 All the paths of the LORD are steadfast love and faithfulness, for those who keep his covenant and
his testimonies.
Psa 25:11 For your name's sake, O LORD, pardon my guilt, for it is great.
Psa 25:12 Who is the man who fears the LORD? Him will he instruct in the way that he should choose.Psa 25:13 His soul shall abide in well-being, and his offspring shall inherit the land.
Psa 25:14 The friendship of the LORD is for those who fear him, and he makes known to them his covenant.
Psa 25:15 My eyes are ever toward the LORD, for he will pluck my feet out of the net.
Psa 25:16 Turn to me and be gracious to me, for I am lonely and afflicted.
Psa 25:17 The troubles of my heart are enlarged; bring me out of my distresses.
Psa 25:18 Consider my affliction and my trouble, and forgive all my sins.
Psa 25:19 Consider how many are my foes, and with what violent hatred they hate me.
Psa 25:20 Oh, guard my soul, and deliver me! Let me not be put to shame, for I take refuge in you.
Psa 25:21 May integrity and uprightness preserve me, for I wait for you.
Psa 25:22 Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his troubles.
Psa 26:1 OF DAVID. Vindicate me, O LORD, for I have walked in my integrity, and I have trusted in the LORD
without wavering.
Psa 26:2 Prove me, O LORD, and try me; test my heart and my mind.
Psa 26:3 For your steadfast love is before my eyes, and I walk in your faithfulness.
Psa 26:4 I do not sit with men of falsehood, nor do I consort with hypocrites.
Psa 26:5 I hate the assembly of evildoers, and I will not sit with the wicked.
Psa 26:6 I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar, O LORD,
Psa 26:7 proclaiming thanksgiving aloud, and telling all your wondrous deeds.
Psa 26:8 O LORD, I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells.
Psa 26:9 Do not sweep my soul away with sinners, nor my life with bloodthirsty men,
Psa 26:10 in whose hands are evil devices, and whose right hands are full of bribes.
Psa 26:11 But as for me, I shall walk in my integrity; redeem me, and be gracious to me.
Psa 26:12 My foot stands on level ground; in the great assembly I will bless the LORD.
Psa 27:1 OF DAVID.The LORD is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The LORD is the stronghold of
my life; of whom shall I be afraid?
Psa 27:2 When evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh, my adversaries and foes, it is they who stumble and fall.
Psa 27:3 Though an army encamp against me, my heart shall not fear; though war arise against me, yet I will be
confident.
Psa 27:4 One thing have I asked of the LORD, that will I seek after: that I may dwell in the house of the LORD
all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the LORD and to inquire in his temple.
Psa 27:5 For he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble; he will conceal me under the cover of his tent;
he will lift me high upon a rock.
Psa 27:6 And now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me, and I will offer in his tent
sacrifices with shouts of joy; I will sing and make melody to the LORD.
Psa 27:7 Hear, O LORD, when I cry aloud; be gracious to me and answer me!
Psa 27:8 You have said, "Seek my face." My heart says to you, "Your face, LORD, do I seek."
Psa 27:9 Hide not your face from me. Turn not your servant away in anger, O you who have been my help. Cast
me not off; forsake me not, O God of my salvation!
Psa 27:10 For my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the LORD will take me in.
Psa 27:11 Teach me your way, O LORD, and lead me on a level path because of my enemies.
Psa 27:12 Give me not up to the will of my adversaries; for false witnesses have risen against me, and they
breathe out violence.
Psa 27:13 I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the LORD in the land of the living!
Psa 27:14 Wait for the LORD; be strong, and let your heart take courage; wait for the LORD!
Psa 28:1 OF DAVID.To you, O LORD, I call; my rock, be not deaf to me, lest, if you be silent to me, I become
like those who go down to the pit.
Psa 28:2 Hear the voice of my pleas for mercy, when I cry to you for help, when I lift up my hands toward your
most holy sanctuary.
Psa 28:3 Do not drag me off with the wicked, with the workers of evil, who speak peace with their neighbors
while evil is in their hearts.
Psa 28:4 Give to them according to their work and according to the evil of their deeds; give to them according to
the work of their hands; render them their due reward.
Psa 28:5 Because they do not regard the works of the LORD or the work of his hands, he will tear them down
and build them up no more.
Psa 28:6 Blessed be the LORD! for he has heard the voice of my pleas for mercy.
Psa 28:7 The LORD is my strength and my shield; in him my heart trusts, and I am helped; my heart exults, and
with my song I give thanks to him.
Psa 28:8 The LORD is the strength of his people; he is the saving refuge of his anointed.
Psa 28:9 Oh, save your people and bless your heritage! Be their shepherd and carry them forever.Psa 29:1 A PSALM OF DAVID.Ascribe to the LORD, O heavenly beings, ascribe to the LORD glory and
strength.
Psa 29:2 Ascribe to the LORD the glory due his name; worship the LORD in the splendor of holiness.
Psa 29:3 The voice of the LORD is over the waters; the God of glory thunders, the LORD, over many waters.
Psa 29:4 The voice of the LORD is powerful; the voice of the LORD is full of majesty.
Psa 29:5 The voice of the LORD breaks the cedars; the LORD breaks the cedars of Lebanon.
Psa 29:6 He makes Lebanon to skip like a calf, and Sirion like a young wild ox.
Psa 29:7 The voice of the LORD flashes forth flames of fire.
Psa 29:8 The voice of the LORD shakes the wilderness; the LORD shakes the wilderness of Kadesh.
Psa 29:9 The voice of the LORD makes the deer give birth and strips the forests bare, and in his temple all cry,
"Glory!"
Psa 29:10 The LORD sits enthroned over the flood; the LORD sits enthroned as king forever.
Psa 29:11 May the LORD give strength to his people! May the LORD bless his people with peace!
Psa 30:1 A PSALM OF DAVID. A SONG AT THE DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE. I will extol you, O LORD, for
you have drawn me up and have not let my foes rejoice over me.
Psa 30:2 O LORD my God, I cried to you for help, and you have healed me.
Psa 30:3 O LORD, you have brought up my soul from Sheol; you restored me to life from among those who go
down to the pit.
Psa 30:4 Sing praises to the LORD, O you his saints, and give thanks to his holy name.
Psa 30:5 For his anger is but for a moment, and his favor is for a lifetime. Weeping may tarry for the night, but
joy comes with the morning.
Psa 30:6 As for me, I said in my prosperity, "I shall never be moved."
Psa 30:7 By your favor, O LORD, you made my mountain stand strong; you hid your face; I was dismayed.
Psa 30:8 To you, O LORD, I cry, and to the Lord I plead for mercy:
Psa 30:9 "What profit is there in my death, if I go down to the pit? Will the dust praise you? Will it tell of your
faithfulness?
Psa 30:10 Hear, O LORD, and be merciful to me! O LORD, be my helper!"
Psa 30:11 You have turned for me my mourning into dancing; you have loosed my sackcloth and clothed me
with gladness,
Psa 30:12 that my glory may sing your praise and not be silent. O LORD my God, I will give thanks to you
forever!
Psa 31:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF DAVID. In you, O LORD, do I take refuge; let me never be
put to shame; in your righteousness deliver me!
Psa 31:2 Incline your ear to me; rescue me speedily! Be a rock of refuge for me, a strong fortress to save me!
Psa 31:3 For you are my rock and my fortress; and for your name's sake you lead me and guide me;
Psa 31:4 you take me out of the net they have hidden for me, for you are my refuge.
Psa 31:5 Into your hand I commit my spirit; you have redeemed me, O LORD, faithful God.
Psa 31:6 I hate those who pay regard to worthless idols, but I trust in the LORD.
Psa 31:7 I will rejoice and be glad in your steadfast love, because you have seen my affliction; you have known
the distress of my soul,
Psa 31:8 and you have not delivered me into the hand of the enemy; you have set my feet in a broad place.
Psa 31:9 Be gracious to me, O LORD, for I am in distress; my eye is wasted from grief; my soul and my body
also.
Psa 31:10 For my life is spent with sorrow, and my years with sighing; my strength fails because of my iniquity,
and my bones waste away.
Psa 31:11 Because of all my adversaries I have become a reproach, especially to my neighbors, and an object
of dread to my acquaintances; those who see me in the street flee from me.
Psa 31:12 I have been forgotten like one who is dead; I have become like a broken vessel.
Psa 31:13 For I hear the whispering of many- terror on every side!- as they scheme together against me, as
they plot to take my life.
Psa 31:14 But I trust in you, O LORD; I say, "You are my God."
Psa 31:15 My times are in your hand; rescue me from the hand of my enemies and from my persecutors!
Psa 31:16 Make your face shine on your servant; save me in your steadfast love!
Psa 31:17 O LORD, let me not be put to shame, for I call upon you; let the wicked be put to shame; let them go
silently to Sheol.
Psa 31:18 Let the lying lips be mute, which speak insolently against the righteous in pride and contempt.
Psa 31:19 Oh, how abundant is your goodness, which you have stored up for those who fear you and worked
for those who take refuge in you, in the sight of the children of mankind!
Psa 31:20 In the cover of your presence you hide them from the plots of men; you store them in your shelterfrom the strife of tongues.
Psa 31:21 Blessed be the LORD, for he has wondrously shown his steadfast love to me when I was in a
besieged city.
Psa 31:22 I had said in my alarm, "I am cut off from your sight." But you heard the voice of my pleas for mercy
when I cried to you for help.
Psa 31:23 Love the LORD, all you his saints! The LORD preserves the faithful but abundantly repays the one
who acts in pride.
Psa 31:24 Be strong, and let your heart take courage, all you who wait for the LORD!
Psa 32:1 A MASKIL OF DAVID. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered.
Psa 32:2 Blessed is the man against whom the LORD counts no iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit.
Psa 32:3 For when I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long.
Psa 32:4 For day and night your hand was heavy upon me; my strength was dried up as by the heat of summer.
Selah
Psa 32:5 I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity; I said, "I will confess my transgressions
to the LORD," and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Selah
Psa 32:6 Therefore let everyone who is godly offer prayer to you at a time when you may be found; surely in the
rush of great waters, they shall not reach him.
Psa 32:7 You are a hiding place for me; you preserve me from trouble; you surround me with shouts of
deliverance. Selah
Psa 32:8 I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go; I will counsel you with my eye upon you.
Psa 32:9 Be not like a horse or a mule, without understanding, which must be curbed with bit and bridle, or it will
not stay near you.
Psa 32:10 Many are the sorrows of the wicked, but steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts in the LORD.
Psa 32:11 Be glad in the LORD, and rejoice, O righteous, and shout for joy, all you upright in heart!
Psa 33:1 Shout for joy in the LORD, O you righteous! Praise befits the upright.
Psa 33:2 Give thanks to the LORD with the lyre; make melody to him with the harp of ten strings!
Psa 33:3 Sing to him a new song; play skillfully on the strings, with loud shouts.
Psa 33:4 For the word of the LORD is upright, and all his work is done in faithfulness.
Psa 33:5 He loves righteousness and justice; the earth is full of the steadfast love of the LORD.
Psa 33:6 By the word of the LORD the heavens were made, and by the breath of his mouth all their host.
Psa 33:7 He gathers the waters of the sea as a heap; he puts the deeps in storehouses.
Psa 33:8 Let all the earth fear the LORD; let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him!
Psa 33:9 For he spoke, and it came to be; he commanded, and it stood firm.
Psa 33:10 The LORD brings the counsel of the nations to nothing; he frustrates the plans of the peoples.
Psa 33:11 The counsel of the LORD stands forever, the plans of his heart to all generations.
Psa 33:12 Blessed is the nation whose God is the LORD, the people whom he has chosen as his heritage!
Psa 33:13 The LORD looks down from heaven; he sees all the children of man;
Psa 33:14 from where he sits enthroned he looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth,
Psa 33:15 he who fashions the hearts of them all and observes all their deeds.
Psa 33:16 The king is not saved by his great army; a warrior is not delivered by his great strength.
Psa 33:17 The war horse is a false hope for salvation, and by its great might it cannot rescue.
Psa 33:18 Behold, the eye of the LORD is on those who fear him, on those who hope in his steadfast love,
Psa 33:19 that he may deliver their soul from death and keep them alive in famine.
Psa 33:20 Our soul waits for the LORD; he is our help and our shield.
Psa 33:21 For our heart is glad in him, because we trust in his holy name.
Psa 33:22 Let your steadfast love, O LORD, be upon us, even as we hope in you.
Psa 34:1 OF DAVID, WHEN HE CHANGED HIS BEHAVIOR BEFORE ABIMELECH, SO THAT HE DROVE
HIM OUT, AND HE WENT AWAY. I will bless the LORD at all times; his praise shall continually be in my mouth.
Psa 34:2 My soul makes its boast in the LORD; let the humble hear and be glad.
Psa 34:3 Oh, magnify the LORD with me, and let us exalt his name together!
Psa 34:4 I sought the LORD, and he answered me and delivered me from all my fears.
Psa 34:5 Those who look to him are radiant, and their faces shall never be ashamed.
Psa 34:6 This poor man cried, and the LORD heard him and saved him out of all his troubles.
Psa 34:7 The angel of the LORD encamps around those who fear him, and delivers them.
Psa 34:8 Oh, taste and see that the LORD is good! Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him!
Psa 34:9 Oh, fear the LORD, you his saints, for those who fear him have no lack!
Psa 34:10 The young lions suffer want and hunger; but those who seek the LORD lack no good thing.
Psa 34:11 Come, O children, listen to me; I will teach you the fear of the LORD.
Psa 34:12 What man is there who desires life and loves many days, that he may see good?Psa 34:13 Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit.
Psa 34:14 Turn away from evil and do good; seek peace and pursue it.
Psa 34:15 The eyes of the LORD are toward the righteous and his ears toward their cry.
Psa 34:16 The face of the LORD is against those who do evil, to cut off the memory of them from the earth.
Psa 34:17 When the righteous cry for help, the LORD hears and delivers them out of all their troubles.
Psa 34:18 The LORD is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit.
Psa 34:19 Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the LORD delivers him out of them all.
Psa 34:20 He keeps all his bones; not one of them is broken.
Psa 34:21 Affliction will slay the wicked, and those who hate the righteous will be condemned.
Psa 34:22 The LORD redeems the life of his servants; none of those who take refuge in him will be condemned.
Psa 35:1 OF DAVID.Contend, O LORD, with those who contend with me; fight against those who fight against
me!
Psa 35:2 Take hold of shield and buckler and rise for my help!
Psa 35:3 Draw the spear and javelin against my pursuers! Say to my soul, "I am your salvation!"
Psa 35:4 Let them be put to shame and dishonor who seek after my life! Let them be turned back and
disappointed who devise evil against me!
Psa 35:5 Let them be like chaff before the wind, with the angel of the LORD driving them away!
Psa 35:6 Let their way be dark and slippery, with the angel of the LORD pursuing them!
Psa 35:7 For without cause they hid their net for me; without cause they dug a pit for my life.
Psa 35:8 Let destruction come upon him when he does not know it! And let the net that he hid ensnare him; let
him fall into it- to his destruction!
Psa 35:9 Then my soul will rejoice in the LORD, exulting in his salvation.
Psa 35:10 All my bones shall say, "O LORD, who is like you, delivering the poor from him who is too strong for
him, the poor and needy from him who robs him?"
Psa 35:11 Malicious witnesses rise up; they ask me of things that I do not know.
Psa 35:12 They repay me evil for good; my soul is bereft.
Psa 35:13 But I, when they were sick- I wore sackcloth; I afflicted myself with fasting; I prayed with head bowed
on my chest.
Psa 35:14 I went about as though I grieved for my friend or my brother; as one who laments his mother, I bowed
down in mourning.
Psa 35:15 But at my stumbling they rejoiced and gathered; they gathered together against me; wretches whom I
did not know tore at me without ceasing;
Psa 35:16 like profane mockers at a feast, they gnash at me with their teeth.
Psa 35:17 How long, O Lord, will you look on? Rescue me from their destruction, my precious life from the lions!
Psa 35:18 I will thank you in the great congregation; in the mighty throng I will praise you.
Psa 35:19 Let not those rejoice over me who are wrongfully my foes, and let not those wink the eye who hate
me without cause.
Psa 35:20 For they do not speak peace, but against those who are quiet in the land they devise words of deceit.
Psa 35:21 They open wide their mouths against me; they say, "Aha, Aha! our eyes have seen it!"
Psa 35:22 You have seen, O LORD; be not silent! O Lord, be not far from me!
Psa 35:23 Awake and rouse yourself for my vindication, for my cause, my God and my Lord!
Psa 35:24 Vindicate me, O LORD, my God, according to your righteousness, and let them not rejoice over me!
Psa 35:25 Let them not say in their hearts, "Aha, our heart's desire!" Let them not say, "We have swallowed him
up."
Psa 35:26 Let them be put to shame and disappointed altogether who rejoice at my calamity! Let them be
clothed with shame and dishonor who magnify themselves against me!
Psa 35:27 Let those who delight in my righteousness shout for joy and be glad and say evermore, "Great is the
LORD, who delights in the welfare of his servant!"
Psa 35:28 Then my tongue shall tell of your righteousness and of your praise all the day long.
Psa 36:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. OF DAVID, THE SERVANT OF THE LORD. Transgression speaks to the
wicked deep in his heart; there is no fear of God before his eyes.
Psa 36:2 For he flatters himself in his own eyes that his iniquity cannot be found out and hated.
Psa 36:3 The words of his mouth are trouble and deceit; he has ceased to act wisely and do good.
Psa 36:4 He plots trouble while on his bed; he sets himself in a way that is not good; he does not reject evil.
Psa 36:5 Your steadfast love, O LORD, extends to the heavens, your faithfulness to the clouds.
Psa 36:6 Your righteousness is like the mountains of God; your judgments are like the great deep; man and
beast you save, O LORD.
Psa 36:7 How precious is your steadfast love, O God! The children of mankind take refuge in the shadow of
your wings.Psa 36:8 They feast on the abundance of your house, and you give them drink from the river of your delights.
Psa 36:9 For with you is the fountain of life; in your light do we see light.
Psa 36:10 Oh, continue your steadfast love to those who know you, and your righteousness to the upright of
heart!
Psa 36:11 Let not the foot of arrogance come upon me, nor the hand of the wicked drive me away.
Psa 36:12 There the evildoers lie fallen; they are thrust down, unable to rise.
Psa 37:1 OF DAVID. Fret not yourself because of evildoers; be not envious of wrongdoers!
Psa 37:2 For they will soon fade like the grass and wither like the green herb.
Psa 37:3 Trust in the LORD, and do good; dwell in the land and befriend faithfulness.
Psa 37:4 Delight yourself in the LORD, and he will give you the desires of your heart.
Psa 37:5 Commit your way to the LORD; trust in him, and he will act.
Psa 37:6 He will bring forth your righteousness as the light, and your justice as the noonday.
Psa 37:7 Be still before the LORD and wait patiently for him; fret not yourself over the one who prospers in his
way, over the man who carries out evil devices!
Psa 37:8 Refrain from anger, and forsake wrath! Fret not yourself; it tends only to evil.
Psa 37:9 For the evildoers shall be cut off, but those who wait for the LORD shall inherit the land.
Psa 37:10 In just a little while, the wicked will be no more; though you look carefully at his place, he will not be
there.
Psa 37:11 But the meek shall inherit the land and delight themselves in abundant peace.
Psa 37:12 The wicked plots against the righteous and gnashes his teeth at him,
Psa 37:13 but the Lord laughs at the wicked, for he sees that his day is coming.
Psa 37:14 The wicked draw the sword and bend their bows to bring down the poor and needy, to slay those
whose way is upright;
Psa 37:15 their sword shall enter their own heart, and their bows shall be broken.
Psa 37:16 Better is the little that the righteous has than the abundance of many wicked.
Psa 37:17 For the arms of the wicked shall be broken, but the LORD upholds the righteous.
Psa 37:18 The LORD knows the days of the blameless, and their heritage will remain forever;
Psa 37:19 they are not put to shame in evil times; in the days of famine they have abundance.
Psa 37:20 But the wicked will perish; the enemies of the LORD are like the glory of the pastures; they vanishlike smoke they vanish away.
Psa 37:21 The wicked borrows but does not pay back, but the righteous is generous and gives;
Psa 37:22 for those blessed by the LORD shall inherit the land, but those cursed by him shall be cut off.
Psa 37:23 The steps of a man are established by the LORD, when he delights in his way;
Psa 37:24 though he fall, he shall not be cast headlong, for the LORD upholds his hand.
Psa 37:25 I have been young, and now am old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken or his children
begging for bread.
Psa 37:26 He is ever lending generously, and his children become a blessing.
Psa 37:27 Turn away from evil and do good; so shall you dwell forever.
Psa 37:28 For the LORD loves justice; he will not forsake his saints. They are preserved forever, but the
children of the wicked shall be cut off.
Psa 37:29 The righteous shall inherit the land and dwell upon it forever.
Psa 37:30 The mouth of the righteous utters wisdom, and his tongue speaks justice.
Psa 37:31 The law of his God is in his heart; his steps do not slip.
Psa 37:32 The wicked watches for the righteous and seeks to put him to death.
Psa 37:33 The LORD will not abandon him to his power or let him be condemned when he is brought to trial.
Psa 37:34 Wait for the LORD and keep his way, and he will exalt you to inherit the land; you will look on when
the wicked are cut off.
Psa 37:35 I have seen a wicked, ruthless man, spreading himself like a green laurel tree.
Psa 37:36 But he passed away, and behold, he was no more; though I sought him, he could not be found.
Psa 37:37 Mark the blameless and behold the upright, for there is a future for the man of peace.
Psa 37:38 But transgressors shall be altogether destroyed; the future of the wicked shall be cut off.
Psa 37:39 The salvation of the righteous is from the LORD; he is their stronghold in the time of trouble.
Psa 37:40 The LORD helps them and delivers them; he delivers them from the wicked and saves them,
because they take refuge in him.
Psa 38:1 A PSALM OF DAVID, FOR THE MEMORIAL OFFERING. O LORD, rebuke me not in your anger, nor
discipline me in your wrath!
Psa 38:2 For your arrows have sunk into me, and your hand has come down on me.
Psa 38:3 There is no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation; there is no health in my bones
because of my sin.Psa 38:4 For my iniquities have gone over my head; like a heavy burden, they are too heavy for me.
Psa 38:5 My wounds stink and fester because of my foolishness,
Psa 38:6 I am utterly bowed down and prostrate; all the day I go about mourning.
Psa 38:7 For my sides are filled with burning, and there is no soundness in my flesh.
Psa 38:8 I am feeble and crushed; I groan because of the tumult of my heart.
Psa 38:9 O Lord, all my longing is before you; my sighing is not hidden from you.
Psa 38:10 My heart throbs; my strength fails me, and the light of my eyes- it also has gone from me.
Psa 38:11 My friends and companions stand aloof from my plague, and my nearest kin stand far off.
Psa 38:12 Those who seek my life lay their snares; those who seek my hurt speak of ruin and meditate
treachery all day long.
Psa 38:13 But I am like a deaf man; I do not hear, like a mute man who does not open his mouth.
Psa 38:14 I have become like a man who does not hear, and in whose mouth are no rebukes.
Psa 38:15 But for you, O LORD, do I wait; it is you, O Lord my God, who will answer.
Psa 38:16 For I said, "Only let them not rejoice over me, who boast against me when my foot slips!"
Psa 38:17 For I am ready to fall, and my pain is ever before me.
Psa 38:18 I confess my iniquity; I am sorry for my sin.
Psa 38:19 But my foes are vigorous, they are mighty, and many are those who hate me wrongfully.
Psa 38:20 Those who render me evil for good accuse me because I follow after good.
Psa 38:21 Do not forsake me, O LORD! O my God, be not far from me!
Psa 38:22 Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation!
Psa 39:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: TO JEDUTHUN. A PSALM OF DAVID. I said, "I will guard my ways, that I
may not sin with my tongue; I will guard my mouth with a muzzle, so long as the wicked are in my presence."
Psa 39:2 I was mute and silent; I held my peace to no avail, and my distress grew worse.
Psa 39:3 My heart became hot within me. As I mused, the fire burned; then I spoke with my tongue:
Psa 39:4 "O LORD, make me know my end and what is the measure of my days; let me know how fleeting I am!
Psa 39:5 Behold, you have made my days a few handbreadths, and my lifetime is as nothing before you. Surely
all mankind stands as a mere breath! Selah
Psa 39:6 Surely a man goes about as a shadow! Surely for nothing they are in turmoil; man heaps up wealth
and does not know who will gather!
Psa 39:7 "And now, O Lord, for what do I wait? My hope is in you.
Psa 39:8 Deliver me from all my transgressions. Do not make me the scorn of the fool!
Psa 39:9 I am mute; I do not open my mouth, for it is you who have done it.
Psa 39:10 Remove your stroke from me; I am spent by the hostility of your hand.
Psa 39:11 When you discipline a man with rebukes for sin, you consume like a moth what is dear to him; surely
all mankind is a mere breath! Selah
Psa 39:12 "Hear my prayer, O LORD, and give ear to my cry; hold not your peace at my tears! For I am a
sojourner with you, a guest, like all my fathers.
Psa 39:13 Look away from me, that I may smile again, before I depart and am no more!"
Psa 40:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF DAVID. I waited patiently for the LORD; he inclined to me
and heard my cry.
Psa 40:2 He drew me up from the pit of destruction, out of the miry bog, and set my feet upon a rock, making
my steps secure.
Psa 40:3 He put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God. Many will see and fear, and put their
trust in the LORD.
Psa 40:4 Blessed is the man who makes the LORD his trust, who does not turn to the proud, to those who go
astray after a lie!
Psa 40:5 You have multiplied, O LORD my God, your wondrous deeds and your thoughts toward us; none can
compare with you! I will proclaim and tell of them, yet they are more than can be told.
Psa 40:6 Sacrifice and offering you have not desired, but you have given me an open ear. Burnt offering and sin
offering you have not required.
Psa 40:7 Then I said, "Behold, I have come; in the scroll of the book it is written of me:
Psa 40:8 I desire to do your will, O my God; your law is within my heart."
Psa 40:9 I have told the glad news of deliverance in the great congregation; behold, I have not restrained my
lips, as you know, O LORD.
Psa 40:10 I have not hidden your deliverance within my heart; I have spoken of your faithfulness and your
salvation; I have not concealed your steadfast love and your faithfulness from the great congregation.
Psa 40:11 As for you, O LORD, you will not restrain your mercy from me; your steadfast love and your
faithfulness will ever preserve me!
Psa 40:12 For evils have encompassed me beyond number; my iniquities have overtaken me, and I cannot see;they are more than the hairs of my head; my heart fails me.
Psa 40:13 Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me! O LORD, make haste to help me!
Psa 40:14 Let those be put to shame and disappointed altogether who seek to snatch away my life; let those be
turned back and brought to dishonor who desire my hurt!
Psa 40:15 Let those be appalled because of their shame who say to me, "Aha, Aha!"
Psa 40:16 But may all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you; may those who love your salvation say
continually, "Great is the LORD!"
Psa 40:17 As for me, I am poor and needy, but the Lord takes thought for me. You are my help and my
deliverer; do not delay, O my God!
Psa 41:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF DAVID. Blessed is the one who considers the poor! In the
day of trouble the LORD delivers him;
Psa 41:2 the LORD protects him and keeps him alive; he is called blessed in the land; you do not give him up to
the will of his enemies.
Psa 41:3 The LORD sustains him on his sickbed; in his illness you restore him to full health.
Psa 41:4 As for me, I said, "O LORD, be gracious to me; heal me, for I have sinned against you!"
Psa 41:5 My enemies say of me in malice, "When will he die and his name perish?"
Psa 41:6 And when one comes to see me, he utters empty words, while his heart gathers iniquity; when he
goes out, he tells it abroad.
Psa 41:7 All who hate me whisper together about me; they imagine the worst for me.
Psa 41:8 They say, "A deadly thing is poured out on him; he will not rise again from where he lies."
Psa 41:9 Even my close friend in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted his heel against me.
Psa 41:10 But you, O LORD, be gracious to me, and raise me up, that I may repay them!
Psa 41:11 By this I know that you delight in me: my enemy will not shout in triumph over me.
Psa 41:12 But you have upheld me because of my integrity, and set me in your presence forever.
Psa 41:13 Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting! Amen and Amen. BOOK
TWO
Psa 42:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A MASKIL OF THE SONS OF KORAH. As a deer pants for flowing
streams, so pants my soul for you, O God.
Psa 42:2 My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God?
Psa 42:3 My tears have been my food day and night, while they say to me continually, "Where is your God?"
Psa 42:4 These things I remember, as I pour out my soul: how I would go with the throng and lead them in
procession to the house of God with glad shouts and songs of praise, a multitude keeping festival.
Psa 42:5 Why are you cast down, O my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God; for I shall
again praise him, my salvation
Psa 42:6 and my God. My soul is cast down within me; therefore I remember you from the land of Jordan and of
Hermon, from Mount Mizar.
Psa 42:7 Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls; all your breakers and your waves have gone over me.
Psa 42:8 By day the LORD commands his steadfast love, and at night his song is with me, a prayer to the God
of my life.
Psa 42:9 I say to God, my rock: "Why have you forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression
of the enemy?"
Psa 42:10 As with a deadly wound in my bones, my adversaries taunt me, while they say to me continually,
"Where is your God?"
Psa 42:11 Why are you cast down, O my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God; for I shall
again praise him, my salvation and my God.
Psa 43:1 Vindicate me, O God, and defend my cause against an ungodly people, from the deceitful and unjust
man deliver me!
Psa 43:2 For you are the God in whom I take refuge; why have you rejected me? Why do I go about mourning
because of the oppression of the enemy?
Psa 43:3 Send out your light and your truth; let them lead me; let them bring me to your holy hill and to your
dwelling!
Psa 43:4 Then I will go to the altar of God, to God my exceeding joy, and I will praise you with the lyre, O God,
my God.
Psa 43:5 Why are you cast down, O my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God; for I shall
again praise him, my salvation and my God.
Psa 44:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A MASKIL OF THE SONS OF KORAH. O God, we have heard with our
ears, our fathers have told us, what deeds you performed in their days, in the days of old:
Psa 44:2 you with your own hand drove out the nations, but them you planted; you afflicted the peoples, but
them you set free;Psa 44:3 for not by their own sword did they win the land, nor did their own arm save them, but your right hand
and your arm, and the light of your face, for you delighted in them.
Psa 44:4 You are my King, O God; ordain salvation for Jacob!
Psa 44:5 Through you we push down our foes; through your name we tread down those who rise up against us.
Psa 44:6 For not in my bow do I trust, nor can my sword save me.
Psa 44:7 But you have saved us from our foes and have put to shame those who hate us.
Psa 44:8 In God we have boasted continually, and we will give thanks to your name forever. Selah
Psa 44:9 But you have rejected us and disgraced us and have not gone out with our armies.
Psa 44:10 You have made us turn back from the foe, and those who hate us have gotten spoil.
Psa 44:11 You have made us like sheep for slaughter and have scattered us among the nations.
Psa 44:12 You have sold your people for a trifle, demanding no high price for them.
Psa 44:13 You have made us the taunt of our neighbors, the derision and scorn of those around us.
Psa 44:14 You have made us a byword among the nations, a laughingstock among the peoples.
Psa 44:15 All day long my disgrace is before me, and shame has covered my face
Psa 44:16 at the sound of the taunter and reviler, at the sight of the enemy and the avenger.
Psa 44:17 All this has come upon us, though we have not forgotten you, and we have not been false to your
covenant.
Psa 44:18 Our heart has not turned back, nor have our steps departed from your way;
Psa 44:19 yet you have broken us in the place of jackals and covered us with the shadow of death.
Psa 44:20 If we had forgotten the name of our God or spread out our hands to a foreign god,
Psa 44:21 would not God discover this? For he knows the secrets of the heart.
Psa 44:22 Yet for your sake we are killed all the day long; we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered.
Psa 44:23 Awake! Why are you sleeping, O Lord? Rouse yourself! Do not reject us forever!
Psa 44:24 Why do you hide your face? Why do you forget our affliction and oppression?
Psa 44:25 For our soul is bowed down to the dust; our belly clings to the ground.
Psa 44:26 Rise up; come to our help! Redeem us for the sake of your steadfast love!
Psa 45:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO LILIES. A MASKIL OF THE SONS OF KORAH; A LOVE
SONG. My heart overflows with a pleasing theme; I address my verses to the king; my tongue is like the pen of a
ready scribe.
Psa 45:2 You are the most handsome of the sons of men; grace is poured upon your lips; therefore God has
blessed you forever.
Psa 45:3 Gird your sword on your thigh, O mighty one, in your splendor and majesty!
Psa 45:4 In your majesty ride out victoriously for the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness; let your
right hand teach you awesome deeds!
Psa 45:5 Your arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies; the peoples fall under you.
Psa 45:6 Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of uprightness;
Psa 45:7 you have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore God, your God, has anointed you with
the oil of gladness beyond your companions;
Psa 45:8 your robes are all fragrant with myrrh and aloes and cassia. From ivory palaces stringed instruments
make you glad;
Psa 45:9 daughters of kings are among your ladies of honor; at your right hand stands the queen in gold of
Ophir.
Psa 45:10 Hear, O daughter, and consider, and incline your ear: forget your people and your father's house,
Psa 45:11 and the king will desire your beauty. Since he is your lord, bow to him.
Psa 45:12 The people of Tyre will seek your favor with gifts, the richest of the people.
Psa 45:13 All glorious is the princess in her chamber, with robes interwoven with gold.
Psa 45:14 In many-colored robes she is led to the king, with her virgin companions following behind her.
Psa 45:15 With joy and gladness they are led along as they enter the palace of the king.
Psa 45:16 In place of your fathers shall be your sons; you will make them princes in all the earth.
Psa 45:17 I will cause your name to be remembered in all generations; therefore nations will praise you forever
and ever.
Psa 46:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. OF THE SONS OF KORAH. ACCORDING TO ALAMOTH. A SONG. God
is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.
Psa 46:2 Therefore we will not fear though the earth gives way, though the mountains be moved into the heart
of the sea,
Psa 46:3 though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains tremble at its swelling. Selah
Psa 46:4 There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy habitation of the Most High.
Psa 46:5 God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved; God will help her when morning dawns.
Psa 46:6 The nations rage, the kingdoms totter; he utters his voice, the earth melts.Psa 46:7 The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our fortress. Selah
Psa 46:8 Come, behold the works of the LORD, how he has brought desolations on the earth.
Psa 46:9 He makes wars cease to the end of the earth; he breaks the bow and shatters the spear; he burns the
chariots with fire.
Psa 46:10 "Be still, and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth!"
Psa 46:11 The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our fortress. Selah
Psa 47:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF THE SONS OF KORAH. Clap your hands, all peoples! Shout
to God with loud songs of joy!
Psa 47:2 For the LORD, the Most High, is to be feared, a great king over all the earth.
Psa 47:3 He subdued peoples under us, and nations under our feet.
Psa 47:4 He chose our heritage for us, the pride of Jacob whom he loves. Selah
Psa 47:5 God has gone up with a shout, the LORD with the sound of a trumpet.
Psa 47:6 Sing praises to God, sing praises! Sing praises to our King, sing praises!
Psa 47:7 For God is the King of all the earth; sing praises with a psalm!
Psa 47:8 God reigns over the nations; God sits on his holy throne.
Psa 47:9 The princes of the peoples gather as the people of the God of Abraham. For the shields of the earth
belong to God; he is highly exalted!
Psa 48:1 A SONG. A PSALM OF THE SONS OF KORAH. Great is the LORD and greatly to be praised in the
city of our God! His holy mountain,
Psa 48:2 beautiful in elevation, is the joy of all the earth, Mount Zion, in the far north, the city of the great King.
Psa 48:3 Within her citadels God has made himself known as a fortress.
Psa 48:4 For behold, the kings assembled; they came on together.
Psa 48:5 As soon as they saw it, they were astounded; they were in panic; they took to flight.
Psa 48:6 Trembling took hold of them there, anguish as of a woman in labor.
Psa 48:7 By the east wind you shattered the ships of Tarshish.
Psa 48:8 As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the LORD of hosts, in the city of our God, which God
will establish forever. Selah
Psa 48:9 We have thought on your steadfast love, O God, in the midst of your temple.
Psa 48:10 As your name, O God, so your praise reaches to the ends of the earth. Your right hand is filled with
righteousness.
Psa 48:11 Let Mount Zion be glad! Let the daughters of Judah rejoice because of your judgments!
Psa 48:12 Walk about Zion, go around her, number her towers,
Psa 48:13 consider well her ramparts, go through her citadels, that you may tell the next generation
Psa 48:14 that this is God, our God forever and ever. He will guide us forever.
Psa 49:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF THE SONS OF KORAH. Hear this, all peoples! Give ear, all
inhabitants of the world,
Psa 49:2 both low and high, rich and poor together!
Psa 49:3 My mouth shall speak wisdom; the meditation of my heart shall be understanding.
Psa 49:4 I will incline my ear to a proverb; I will solve my riddle to the music of the lyre.
Psa 49:5 Why should I fear in times of trouble, when the iniquity of those who cheat me surrounds me,
Psa 49:6 those who trust in their wealth and boast of the abundance of their riches?
Psa 49:7 Truly no man can ransom another, or give to God the price of his life,
Psa 49:8 for the ransom of their life is costly and can never suffice,
Psa 49:9 that he should live on forever and never see the pit.
Psa 49:10 For he sees that even the wise die; the fool and the stupid alike must perish and leave their wealth to
others.
Psa 49:11 Their graves are their homes forever, their dwelling places to all generations, though they called
lands by their own names.
Psa 49:12 Man in his pomp will not remain; he is like the beasts that perish.
Psa 49:13 This is the path of those who have foolish confidence; yet after them people approve of their boasts.
Selah
Psa 49:14 Like sheep they are appointed for Sheol; Death shall be their shepherd, and the upright shall rule
over them in the morning. Their form shall be consumed in Sheol, with no place to dwell.
Psa 49:15 But God will ransom my soul from the power of Sheol, for he will receive me. Selah
Psa 49:16 Be not afraid when a man becomes rich, when the glory of his house increases.
Psa 49:17 For when he dies he will carry nothing away; his glory will not go down after him.
Psa 49:18 For though, while he lives, he counts himself blessed,- and though you get praise when you do well
for yourselfPsa 49:19 his soul will go to the generation of his fathers, who will never again see light.Psa 49:20 Man in his pomp yet without understanding is like the beasts that perish.
Psa 50:1 A PSALM OF ASAPH. The Mighty One, God the LORD, speaks and summons the earth from the
rising of the sun to its setting.
Psa 50:2 Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God shines forth.
Psa 50:3 Our God comes; he does not keep silence; before him is a devouring fire, around him a mighty
tempest.
Psa 50:4 He calls to the heavens above and to the earth, that he may judge his people:
Psa 50:5 "Gather to me my faithful ones, who made a covenant with me by sacrifice!"
Psa 50:6 The heavens declare his righteousness, for God himself is judge! Selah
Psa 50:7 "Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, I will testify against you. I am God, your God.
Psa 50:8 Not for your sacrifices do I rebuke you; your burnt offerings are continually before me.
Psa 50:9 I will not accept a bull from your house or goats from your folds.
Psa 50:10 For every beast of the forest is mine, the cattle on a thousand hills.
Psa 50:11 I know all the birds of the hills, and all that moves in the field is mine.
Psa 50:12 "If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world and its fullness are mine.
Psa 50:13 Do I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats?
Psa 50:14 Offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving, and perform your vows to the Most High,
Psa 50:15 and call upon me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you, and you shall glorify me."
Psa 50:16 But to the wicked God says: "What right have you to recite my statutes or take my covenant on your
lips?
Psa 50:17 For you hate discipline, and you cast my words behind you.
Psa 50:18 If you see a thief, you are pleased with him, and you keep company with adulterers.
Psa 50:19 "You give your mouth free rein for evil, and your tongue frames deceit.
Psa 50:20 You sit and speak against your brother; you slander your own mother's son.
Psa 50:21 These things you have done, and I have been silent; you thought that I was one like yourself. But
now I rebuke you and lay the charge before you.
Psa 50:22 "Mark this, then, you who forget God, lest I tear you apart, and there be none to deliver!
Psa 50:23 The one who offers thanksgiving as his sacrifice glorifies me; to one who orders his way rightly I will
show the salvation of God!"
Psa 51:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF DAVID, WHEN NATHAN THE PROPHET WENT TO HIM,
AFTER HE HAD GONE IN TO BATHSHEBA. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love;
according to your abundant mercy blot out my transgressions.
Psa 51:2 Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin!
Psa 51:3 For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me.
Psa 51:4 Against you, you only, have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified in
your words and blameless in your judgment.
Psa 51:5 Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me.
Psa 51:6 Behold, you delight in truth in the inward being, and you teach me wisdom in the secret heart.
Psa 51:7 Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean; wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.
Psa 51:8 Let me hear joy and gladness; let the bones that you have broken rejoice.
Psa 51:9 Hide your face from my sins, and blot out all my iniquities.
Psa 51:10 Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me.
Psa 51:11 Cast me not away from your presence, and take not your Holy Spirit from me.
Psa 51:12 Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me with a willing spirit.
Psa 51:13 Then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will return to you.
Psa 51:14 Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, O God of my salvation, and my tongue will sing aloud of
your righteousness.
Psa 51:15 O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth will declare your praise.
Psa 51:16 For you will not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it; you will not be pleased with a burnt offering.
Psa 51:17 The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit; a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise.
Psa 51:18 Do good to Zion in your good pleasure; build up the walls of Jerusalem;
Psa 51:19 then will you delight in right sacrifices, in burnt offerings and whole burnt offerings; then bulls will be
offered on your altar.
Psa 52:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A MASKIL OF DAVID, WHEN DOEG, THE EDOMITE, CAME AND TOLD
SAUL, "DAVID HAS COME TO THE HOUSE OF AHIMELECH." Why do you boast of evil, O mighty man? The
steadfast love of God endures all the day.
Psa 52:2 Your tongue plots destruction, like a sharp razor, you worker of deceit.
Psa 52:3 You love evil more than good, and lying more than speaking what is right. Selah
Psa 52:4 You love all words that devour, O deceitful tongue.Psa 52:5 But God will break you down forever; he will snatch and tear you from your tent; he will uproot you
from the land of the living. Selah
Psa 52:6 The righteous shall see and fear, and shall laugh at him, saying,
Psa 52:7 "See the man who would not make God his refuge, but trusted in the abundance of his riches and
sought refuge in his own destruction!"
Psa 52:8 But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God. I trust in the steadfast love of God forever and
ever.
Psa 52:9 I will thank you forever, because you have done it. I will wait for your name, for it is good, in the
presence of the godly.
Psa 53:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO MAHALATH. A MASKIL OF DAVID. The fool says in his
heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt, doing abominable iniquity; there is none who does good.
Psa 53:2 God looks down from heaven on the children of man to see if there are any who understand, who seek
after God.
Psa 53:3 They have all fallen away; together they have become corrupt; there is none who does good, not even
one.
Psa 53:4 Have those who work evil no knowledge, who eat up my people as they eat bread, and do not call
upon God?
Psa 53:5 There they are, in great terror, where there is no terror! For God scatters the bones of him who
encamps against you; you put them to shame, for God has rejected them.
Psa 53:6 Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion! When God restores the fortunes of his people, Let
Jacob rejoice, let Israel be glad.
Psa 54:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: WITH STRINGED INSTRUMENTS. A MASKIL OF DAVID, WHEN THE
ZIPHITES WENT AND TOLD SAUL, "IS NOT DAVID HIDING AMONG US?" O God, save me, by your name,
and vindicate me by your might.
Psa 54:2 O God, hear my prayer; give ear to the words of my mouth.
Psa 54:3 For strangers have risen against me; ruthless men seek my life; they do not set God before
themselves. Selah
Psa 54:4 Behold, God is my helper; the Lord is the upholder of my life.
Psa 54:5 He will return the evil to my enemies; in your faithfulness put an end to them.
Psa 54:6 With a freewill offering I will sacrifice to you; I will give thanks to your name, O LORD, for it is good.
Psa 54:7 For he has delivered me from every trouble, and my eye has looked in triumph on my enemies.
Psa 55:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: WITH STRINGED INSTRUMENTS. A MASKIL OF DAVID. Give ear to my
prayer, O God, and hide not yourself from my plea for mercy!
Psa 55:2 Attend to me, and answer me; I am restless in my complaint and I moan,
Psa 55:3 because of the noise of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked. For they drop trouble
upon me, and in anger they bear a grudge against me.
Psa 55:4 My heart is in anguish within me; the terrors of death have fallen upon me.
Psa 55:5 Fear and trembling come upon me, and horror overwhelms me.
Psa 55:6 And I say, "Oh, that I had wings like a dove! I would fly away and be at rest;
Psa 55:7 yes, I would wander far away; I would lodge in the wilderness; Selah
Psa 55:8 I would hurry to find a shelter from the raging wind and tempest."
Psa 55:9 Destroy, O Lord, divide their tongues; for I see violence and strife in the city.
Psa 55:10 Day and night they go around it on its walls, and iniquity and trouble are within it;
Psa 55:11 ruin is in its midst; oppression and fraud do not depart from its marketplace.
Psa 55:12 For it is not an enemy who taunts me- then I could bear it; it is not an adversary who deals insolently
with me- then I could hide from him.
Psa 55:13 But it is you, a man, my equal, my companion, my familiar friend.
Psa 55:14 We used to take sweet counsel together; within God's house we walked in the throng.
Psa 55:15 Let death steal over them; let them go down to Sheol alive; for evil is in their dwelling place and in
their heart.
Psa 55:16 But I call to God, and the LORD will save me.
Psa 55:17 Evening and morning and at noon I utter my complaint and moan, and he hears my voice.
Psa 55:18 He redeems my soul in safety from the battle that I wage, for many are arrayed against me.
Psa 55:19 God will give ear and humble them, he who is enthroned from of old, Selah because they do not
change and do not fear God.
Psa 55:20 My companion stretched out his hand against his friends; he violated his covenant.
Psa 55:21 His speech was smooth as butter, yet war was in his heart; his words were softer than oil, yet they
were drawn swords.
Psa 55:22 Cast your burden on the LORD, and he will sustain you; he will never permit the righteous to bemoved.
Psa 55:23 But you, O God, will cast them down into the pit of destruction; men of blood and treachery shall not
live out half their days. But I will trust in you.
Psa 56:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO THE DOVE ON FAR-OFF TEREBINTHS. A MIKTAM OF
DAVID, WHEN THE PHILISTINES SEIZED HIM IN GATH. Be gracious to me, O God, for man tramples on me;
all day long an attacker oppresses me;
Psa 56:2 my enemies trample on me all day long, for many attack me proudly.
Psa 56:3 When I am afraid, I put my trust in you.
Psa 56:4 In God, whose word I praise, in God I trust; I shall not be afraid. What can flesh do to me?
Psa 56:5 All day long they injure my cause; all their thoughts are against me for evil.
Psa 56:6 They stir up strife, they lurk; they watch my steps, as they have waited for my life.
Psa 56:7 For their crime will they escape? In wrath cast down the peoples, O God!
Psa 56:8 You have kept count of my tossings; put my tears in your bottle. Are they not in your book?
Psa 56:9 Then my enemies will turn back in the day when I call. This I know, that God is for me.
Psa 56:10 In God, whose word I praise, in the LORD, whose word I praise,
Psa 56:11 in God I trust; I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me?
Psa 56:12 I must perform my vows to you, O God; I will render thank offerings to you.
Psa 56:13 For you have delivered my soul from death, yes, my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in
the light of life.
Psa 57:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO DO NOT DESTROY. A MIKTAM OF DAVID, WHEN HE
FLED FROM SAUL, IN THE CAVE. Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me, for in you my soul takes
refuge; in the shadow of your wings I will take refuge, till the storms of destruction pass by.
Psa 57:2 I cry out to God Most High, to God who fulfills his purpose for me.
Psa 57:3 He will send from heaven and save me; he will put to shame him who tramples on me. Selah God will
send out his steadfast love and his faithfulness!
Psa 57:4 My soul is in the midst of lions; I lie down amid fiery beasts- the children of man, whose teeth are
spears and arrows, whose tongues are sharp swords.
Psa 57:5 Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let your glory be over all the earth!
Psa 57:6 They set a net for my steps; my soul was bowed down. They dug a pit in my way, but they have fallen
into it themselves. Selah
Psa 57:7 My heart is steadfast, O God, my heart is steadfast! I will sing and make melody!
Psa 57:8 Awake, my glory! Awake, O harp and lyre! I will awake the dawn!
Psa 57:9 I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples; I will sing praises to you among the nations.
Psa 57:10 For your steadfast love is great to the heavens, your faithfulness to the clouds.
Psa 57:11 Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let your glory be over all the earth!
Psa 58:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO DO NOT DESTROY. A MIKTAM OF DAVID. Do you
indeed decree what is right, you gods? Do you judge the children of man uprightly?
Psa 58:2 No, in your hearts you devise wrongs; your hands deal out violence on earth.
Psa 58:3 The wicked are estranged from the womb; they go astray from birth, speaking lies.
Psa 58:4 They have venom like the venom of a serpent, like the deaf adder that stops its ear,
Psa 58:5 so that it does not hear the voice of charmers or of the cunning enchanter.
Psa 58:6 O God, break the teeth in their mouths; tear out the fangs of the young lions, O LORD!
Psa 58:7 Let them vanish like water that runs away; when he aims his arrows, let them be blunted.
Psa 58:8 Let them be like the snail that dissolves into slime, like the stillborn child who never sees the sun.
Psa 58:9 Sooner than your pots can feel the heat of thorns, whether green or ablaze, may he sweep them
away!
Psa 58:10 The righteous will rejoice when he sees the vengeance; he will bathe his feet in the blood of the
wicked.
Psa 58:11 Mankind will say, "Surely there is a reward for the righteous; surely there is a God who judges on
earth."
Psa 59:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO DO NOT DESTROY. A MIKTAM OF DAVID, WHEN
SAUL SENT MEN TO WATCH HIS HOUSE IN ORDER TO KILL HIM. Deliver me from my enemies, O my God;
protect me from those who rise up against me;
Psa 59:2 deliver me from those who work evil, and save me from bloodthirsty men.
Psa 59:3 For behold, they lie in wait for my life; fierce men stir up strife against me. For no transgression or sin
of mine, O LORD,
Psa 59:4 for no fault of mine, they run and make ready. Awake, come to meet me, and see!
Psa 59:5 You, LORD God of hosts, are God of Israel. Rouse yourself to punish all the nations; spare none of
those who treacherously plot evil. SelahPsa 59:6 Each evening they come back, howling like dogs and prowling about the city.
Psa 59:7 There they are, bellowing with their mouths with swords in their lips- for "Who," they think, "will hear
us?"
Psa 59:8 But you, O LORD, laugh at them; you hold all the nations in derision.
Psa 59:9 O my Strength, I will watch for you, for you, O God, are my fortress.
Psa 59:10 My God in his steadfast love will meet me; God will let me look in triumph on my enemies.
Psa 59:11 Kill them not, lest my people forget; make them totter by your power and bring them down, O Lord,
our shield!
Psa 59:12 For the sin of their mouths, the words of their lips, let them be trapped in their pride. For the cursing
and lies that they utter,
Psa 59:13 consume them in wrath; consume them till they are no more, that they may know that God rules over
Jacob to the ends of the earth. Selah
Psa 59:14 Each evening they come back, howling like dogs and prowling about the city.
Psa 59:15 They wander about for food and growl if they do not get their fill.
Psa 59:16 But I will sing of your strength; I will sing aloud of your steadfast love in the morning. For you have
been to me a fortress and a refuge in the day of my distress.
Psa 59:17 O my Strength, I will sing praises to you, for you, O God, are my fortress, the God who shows me
steadfast love.
Psa 60:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO SHUSHAN EDUTH. A MIKTAM OF DAVID; FOR
INSTRUCTION; WHEN HE STROVE WITH ARAM-NAHARAIM AND WITH ARAM-ZOBAH, AND WHEN JOAB
ON HIS RETURN STRUCK DOWN TWELVE THOUSAND OF EDOM IN THE VALLEY OF SALT. O God, you
have rejected us, broken our defenses; you have been angry; oh, restore us.
Psa 60:2 You have made the land to quake; you have torn it open; repair its breaches, for it totters.
Psa 60:3 You have made your people see hard things; you have given us wine to drink that made us stagger.
Psa 60:4 You have set up a banner for those who fear you, that they may flee to it from the bow. Selah
Psa 60:5 That your beloved ones may be delivered, give salvation by your right hand and answer us!
Psa 60:6 God has spoken in his holiness: "With exultation I will divide up Shechem and portion out the Vale of
Succoth.
Psa 60:7 Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim is my helmet; Judah is my scepter.
Psa 60:8 Moab is my washbasin; upon Edom I cast my shoe; over Philistia I shout in triumph."
Psa 60:9 Who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom?
Psa 60:10 Have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go forth, O God, with our armies.
Psa 60:11 Oh, grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man!
Psa 60:12 With God we shall do valiantly; it is he who will tread down our foes.
Psa 61:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: WITH STRINGED INSTRUMENTS. OF DAVID. Hear my cry, O God, listen
to my prayer;
Psa 61:2 from the end of the earth I call to you when my heart is faint. Lead me to the rock that is higher than I,
Psa 61:3 for you have been my refuge, a strong tower against the enemy.
Psa 61:4 Let me dwell in your tent forever! Let me take refuge under the shelter of your wings! Selah
Psa 61:5 For you, O God, have heard my vows; you have given me the heritage of those who fear your name.
Psa 61:6 Prolong the life of the king; may his years endure to all generations!
Psa 61:7 May he be enthroned forever before God; appoint steadfast love and faithfulness to watch over him!
Psa 61:8 So will I ever sing praises to your name, as I perform my vows day after day.
Psa 62:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO JEDUTHUN. A PSALM OF DAVID. For God alone my
soul waits in silence; from him comes my salvation.
Psa 62:2 He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress; I shall not be greatly shaken.
Psa 62:3 How long will all of you attack a man to batter him, like a leaning wall, a tottering fence?
Psa 62:4 They only plan to thrust him down from his high position. They take pleasure in falsehood. They bless
with their mouths, but inwardly they curse. Selah
Psa 62:5 For God alone, O my soul, wait in silence, for my hope is from him.
Psa 62:6 He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress; I shall not be shaken.
Psa 62:7 On God rests my salvation and my glory; my mighty rock, my refuge is God.
Psa 62:8 Trust in him at all times, O people; pour out your heart before him; God is a refuge for us. Selah
Psa 62:9 Those of low estate are but a breath; those of high estate are a delusion; in the balances they go up;
they are together lighter than a breath.
Psa 62:10 Put no trust in extortion; set no vain hopes on robbery; if riches increase, set not your heart on them.
Psa 62:11 Once God has spoken; twice have I heard this: that power belongs to God,
Psa 62:12 and that to you, O Lord, belongs steadfast love. For you will render to a man according to his work.
Psa 63:1 A PSALM OF DAVID, WHEN HE WAS IN THE WILDERNESS OF JUDAH. O God, you are my God;earnestly I seek you; my soul thirsts for you; my flesh faints for you, as in a dry and weary land where there is no
water.
Psa 63:2 So I have looked upon you in the sanctuary, beholding your power and glory.
Psa 63:3 Because your steadfast love is better than life, my lips will praise you.
Psa 63:4 So I will bless you as long as I live; in your name I will lift up my hands.
Psa 63:5 My soul will be satisfied as with fat and rich food, and my mouth will praise you with joyful lips,
Psa 63:6 when I remember you upon my bed, and meditate on you in the watches of the night;
Psa 63:7 for you have been my help, and in the shadow of your wings I will sing for joy.
Psa 63:8 My soul clings to you; your right hand upholds me.
Psa 63:9 But those who seek to destroy my life shall go down into the depths of the earth;
Psa 63:10 they shall be given over to the power of the sword; they shall be a portion for jackals.
Psa 63:11 But the king shall rejoice in God; all who swear by him shall exult, for the mouths of liars will be
stopped.
Psa 64:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF DAVID. Hear my voice, O God, in my complaint; preserve my
life from dread of the enemy.
Psa 64:2 Hide me from the secret plots of the wicked, from the throng of evildoers,
Psa 64:3 who whet their tongues like swords, who aim bitter words like arrows,
Psa 64:4 shooting from ambush at the blameless, shooting at him suddenly and without fear.
Psa 64:5 They hold fast to their evil purpose; they talk of laying snares secretly, thinking, who can see them?
Psa 64:6 They search out injustice, saying, "We have accomplished a diligent search." For the inward mind and
heart of a man are deep!
Psa 64:7 But God shoots his arrow at them; they are wounded suddenly.
Psa 64:8 They are brought to ruin, with their own tongues turned against them; all who see them will wag their
heads.
Psa 64:9 Then all mankind fears; they tell what God has brought about and ponder what he has done.
Psa 64:10 Let the righteous one rejoice in the LORD and take refuge in him! Let all the upright in heart exult!
Psa 65:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF DAVID. A SONG. Praise is due to you, O God, in Zion, and
to you shall vows be performed.
Psa 65:2 O you who hears prayer, to you shall all flesh come.
Psa 65:3 When iniquities prevail against me, you atone for our transgressions.
Psa 65:4 Blessed is the one you choose and bring near, to dwell in your courts! We shall be satisfied with the
goodness of your house, the holiness of your temple!
Psa 65:5 By awesome deeds you answer us with righteousness, O God of our salvation, the hope of all the
ends of the earth and of the farthest seas;
Psa 65:6 the one who by his strength established the mountains, being girded with might;
Psa 65:7 who stills the roaring of the seas, the roaring of their waves, the tumult of the peoples,
Psa 65:8 so that those who dwell at the ends of the earth are in awe at your signs. You make the going out of
the morning and the evening to shout for joy.
Psa 65:9 You visit the earth and water it; you greatly enrich it; the river of God is full of water; you provide their
grain, for so you have prepared it.
Psa 65:10 You water its furrows abundantly, settling its ridges, softening it with showers, and blessing its
growth.
Psa 65:11 You crown the year with your bounty; your wagon tracks overflow with abundance.
Psa 65:12 The pastures of the wilderness overflow, the hills gird themselves with joy,
Psa 65:13 the meadows clothe themselves with flocks, the valleys deck themselves with grain, they shout and
sing together for joy.
Psa 66:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A SONG. A PSALM. Shout for joy to God, all the earth;
Psa 66:2 sing the glory of his name; give to him glorious praise!
Psa 66:3 Say to God, "How awesome are your deeds! So great is your power that your enemies come cringing
to you.
Psa 66:4 All the earth worships you and sings praises to you; they sing praises to your name." Selah
Psa 66:5 Come and see what God has done: he is awesome in his deeds toward the children of man.
Psa 66:6 He turned the sea into dry land; they passed through the river on foot. There did we rejoice in him,
Psa 66:7 who rules by his might forever, whose eyes keep watch on the nations- let not the rebellious exalt
themselves. Selah
Psa 66:8 Bless our God, O peoples; let the sound of his praise be heard,
Psa 66:9 who has kept our soul among the living and has not let our feet slip.
Psa 66:10 For you, O God, have tested us; you have tried us as silver is tried.
Psa 66:11 You brought us into the net; you laid a crushing burden on our backs;Psa 66:12 you let men ride over our heads; we went through fire and through water; yet you have brought us
out to a place of abundance.
Psa 66:13 I will come into your house with burnt offerings; I will perform my vows to you,
Psa 66:14 that which my lips uttered and my mouth promised when I was in trouble.
Psa 66:15 I will offer to you burnt offerings of fattened animals, with the smoke of the sacrifice of rams; I will
make an offering of bulls and goats. Selah
Psa 66:16 Come and hear, all you who fear God, and I will tell what he has done for my soul.
Psa 66:17 I cried to him with my mouth, and high praise was on my tongue.
Psa 66:18 If I had cherished iniquity in my heart, the Lord would not have listened.
Psa 66:19 But truly God has listened; he has attended to the voice of my prayer.
Psa 66:20 Blessed be God, because he has not rejected my prayer or removed his steadfast love from me!
Psa 67:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: WITH STRINGED INSTRUMENTS. A PSALM. A SONG. May God be
gracious to us and bless us and make his face to shine upon us, Selah
Psa 67:2 that your way may be known on earth, your saving power among all nations.
Psa 67:3 Let the peoples praise you, O God; let all the peoples praise you!
Psa 67:4 Let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for you judge the peoples with equity and guide the nations
upon earth. Selah
Psa 67:5 Let the peoples praise you, O God; let all the peoples praise you!
Psa 67:6 The earth has yielded its increase; God, our God, shall bless us.
Psa 67:7 God shall bless us; let all the ends of the earth fear him!
Psa 68:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF DAVID. A SONG. God shall arise, his enemies shall be
scattered; and those who hate him shall flee before him!
Psa 68:2 As smoke is driven away, so you shall drive them away; as wax melts before fire, so the wicked shall
perish before God!
Psa 68:3 But the righteous shall be glad; they shall exult before God; they shall be jubilant with joy!
Psa 68:4 Sing to God, sing praises to his name; lift up a song to him who rides through the deserts; his name is
the LORD; exult before him!
Psa 68:5 Father of the fatherless and protector of widows is God in his holy habitation.
Psa 68:6 God settles the solitary in a home; he leads out the prisoners to prosperity, but the rebellious dwell in a
parched land.
Psa 68:7 O God, when you went out before your people, when you marched through the wilderness, Selah
Psa 68:8 the earth quaked, the heavens poured down rain, before God, the One of Sinai, before God, the God
of Israel.
Psa 68:9 Rain in abundance, O God, you shed abroad; you restored your inheritance as it languished;
Psa 68:10 your flock found a dwelling in it; in your goodness, O God, you provided for the needy.
Psa 68:11 The Lord gives the word; the women who announce the news are a great host:
Psa 68:12 "The kings of the armies- they flee, they flee!" The women at home divide the spoilPsa 68:13 though you men lie among the sheepfolds- the wings of a dove covered with silver, its pinions with
shimmering gold.
Psa 68:14 When the Almighty scatters kings there, let snow fall on Zalmon.
Psa 68:15 O mountain of God, mountain of Bashan; O many-peaked mountain, mountain of Bashan!
Psa 68:16 Why do you look with hatred, O many-peaked mountain, at the mount that God desired for his abode,
yes, where the LORD will dwell forever?
Psa 68:17 The chariots of God are twice ten thousand, thousands upon thousands; the Lord is among them;
Sinai is now in the sanctuary.
Psa 68:18 You ascended on high, leading a host of captives in your train and receiving gifts among men, even
among the rebellious, that the LORD God may dwell there.
Psa 68:19 Blessed be the Lord, who daily bears us up; God is our salvation. Selah
Psa 68:20 Our God is a God of salvation, and to GOD, the Lord, belong deliverances from death.
Psa 68:21 But God will strike the heads of his enemies, the hairy crown of him who walks in his guilty ways.
Psa 68:22 The Lord said, "I will bring them back from Bashan, I will bring them back from the depths of the sea,
Psa 68:23 that you may strike your feet in their blood, that the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from
the foe."
Psa 68:24 Your procession is seen, O God, the procession of my God, my King, into the sanctuaryPsa 68:25 the singers in front, the musicians last, between them virgins playing tambourines:
Psa 68:26 "Bless God in the great congregation, the LORD, O you who are of Israel's fountain!"
Psa 68:27 There is Benjamin, the least of them, in the lead, the princes of Judah in their throng, the princes of
Zebulun, the princes of Naphtali.
Psa 68:28 Summon your power, O God, the power, O God, by which you have worked for us.Psa 68:29 Because of your temple at Jerusalem kings shall bear gifts to you.
Psa 68:30 Rebuke the beasts that dwell among the reeds, the herd of bulls with the calves of the peoples.
Trample underfoot those who lust after tribute; scatter the peoples who delight in war.
Psa 68:31 Nobles shall come from Egypt; Cush shall hasten to stretch out her hands to God.
Psa 68:32 O kingdoms of the earth, sing to God; sing praises to the Lord, Selah
Psa 68:33 to him who rides in the heavens, the ancient heavens; behold, he sends out his voice, his mighty
voice.
Psa 68:34 Ascribe power to God, whose majesty is over Israel, and whose power is in the skies.
Psa 68:35 Awesome is God from his sanctuary; the God of Israel- he is the one who gives power and strength
to his people. Blessed be God!
Psa 69:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO LILIES. OF DAVID. Save me, O God! For the waters
have come up to my neck.
Psa 69:2 I sink in deep mire, where there is no foothold; I have come into deep waters, and the flood sweeps
over me.
Psa 69:3 I am weary with my crying out; my throat is parched. My eyes grow dim with waiting for my God.
Psa 69:4 More in number than the hairs of my head are those who hate me without cause; mighty are those
who would destroy me, those who attack me with lies. What I did not steal must I now restore?
Psa 69:5 O God, you know my folly; the wrongs I have done are not hidden from you.
Psa 69:6 Let not those who hope in you be put to shame through me, O Lord GOD of hosts; let not those who
seek you be brought to dishonor through me, O God of Israel.
Psa 69:7 For it is for your sake that I have borne reproach, that dishonor has covered my face.
Psa 69:8 I have become a stranger to my brothers, an alien to my mother's sons.
Psa 69:9 For zeal for your house has consumed me, and the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen
on me.
Psa 69:10 When I wept and humbled my soul with fasting, it became my reproach.
Psa 69:11 When I made sackcloth my clothing, I became a byword to them.
Psa 69:12 I am the talk of those who sit in the gate, and the drunkards make songs about me.
Psa 69:13 But as for me, my prayer is to you, O LORD. At an acceptable time, O God, in the abundance of your
steadfast love answer me in your saving faithfulness.
Psa 69:14 Deliver me from sinking in the mire; let me be delivered from my enemies and from the deep waters.
Psa 69:15 Let not the flood sweep over me, or the deep swallow me up, or the pit close its mouth over me.
Psa 69:16 Answer me, O LORD, for your steadfast love is good; according to your abundant mercy, turn to me.
Psa 69:17 Hide not your face from your servant; for I am in distress; make haste to answer me.
Psa 69:18 Draw near to my soul, redeem me; ransom me because of my enemies!
Psa 69:19 You know my reproach, and my shame and my dishonor; my foes are all known to you.
Psa 69:20 Reproaches have broken my heart, so that I am in despair. I looked for pity, but there was none, and
for comforters, but I found none.
Psa 69:21 They gave me poison for food, and for my thirst they gave me sour wine to drink.
Psa 69:22 Let their own table before them become a snare; and when they are at peace, let it become a trap.
Psa 69:23 Let their eyes be darkened, so that they cannot see, and make their loins tremble continually.
Psa 69:24 Pour out your indignation upon them, and let your burning anger overtake them.
Psa 69:25 May their camp be a desolation; let no one dwell in their tents.
Psa 69:26 For they persecute him whom you have struck down, and they recount the pain of those you have
wounded.
Psa 69:27 Add to them punishment upon punishment; may they have no acquittal from you.
Psa 69:28 Let them be blotted out of the book of the living; let them not be enrolled among the righteous.
Psa 69:29 But I am afflicted and in pain; let your salvation, O God, set me on high!
Psa 69:30 I will praise the name of God with a song; I will magnify him with thanksgiving.
Psa 69:31 This will please the LORD more than an ox or a bull with horns and hoofs.
Psa 69:32 When the humble see it they will be glad; you who seek God, let your hearts revive.
Psa 69:33 For the LORD hears the needy and does not despise his own people who are prisoners.
Psa 69:34 Let heaven and earth praise him, the seas and everything that moves in them.
Psa 69:35 For God will save Zion and build up the cities of Judah, and people shall dwell there and possess it;
Psa 69:36 the offspring of his servants shall inherit it, and those who love his name shall dwell in it.
Psa 70:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. OF DAVID, FOR THE MEMORIAL OFFERING. Make haste, O God, to
deliver me! O LORD, make haste to help me!
Psa 70:2 Let them be put to shame and confusion who seek my life! Let them be turned back and brought to
dishonor who desire my hurt!
Psa 70:3 Let them turn back because of their shame who say, "Aha, Aha!"Psa 70:4 May all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you! May those who love your salvation say evermore,
"God is great!"
Psa 70:5 But I am poor and needy; hasten to me, O God! You are my help and my deliverer; O LORD, do not
delay!
Psa 71:1 In you, O LORD, do I take refuge; let me never be put to shame!
Psa 71:2 In your righteousness deliver me and rescue me; incline your ear to me, and save me!
Psa 71:3 Be to me a rock of refuge, to which I may continually come; you have given the command to save me,
for you are my rock and my fortress.
Psa 71:4 Rescue me, O my God, from the hand of the wicked, from the grasp of the unjust and cruel man.
Psa 71:5 For you, O Lord, are my hope, my trust, O LORD, from my youth.
Psa 71:6 Upon you I have leaned from before my birth; you are he who took me from my mother's womb. My
praise is continually of you.
Psa 71:7 I have been as a portent to many, but you are my strong refuge.
Psa 71:8 My mouth is filled with your praise, and with your glory all the day.
Psa 71:9 Do not cast me off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength is spent.
Psa 71:10 For my enemies speak concerning me; those who watch for my life consult together
Psa 71:11 and say, "God has forsaken him; pursue and seize him, for there is none to deliver him."
Psa 71:12 O God, be not far from me; O my God, make haste to help me!
Psa 71:13 May my accusers be put to shame and consumed; with scorn and disgrace may they be covered who
seek my hurt.
Psa 71:14 But I will hope continually and will praise you yet more and more.
Psa 71:15 My mouth will tell of your righteous acts, of your deeds of salvation all the day, for their number is
past my knowledge.
Psa 71:16 With the mighty deeds of the Lord GOD I will come; I will remind them of your righteousness, yours
alone.
Psa 71:17 O God, from my youth you have taught me, and I still proclaim your wondrous deeds.
Psa 71:18 So even to old age and gray hairs, O God, do not forsake me, until I proclaim your might to another
generation, your power to all those to come.
Psa 71:19 Your righteousness, O God, reaches the high heavens. You who have done great things, O God,
who is like you?
Psa 71:20 You who have made me see many troubles and calamities will revive me again; from the depths of
the earth you will bring me up again.
Psa 71:21 You will increase my greatness and comfort me again.
Psa 71:22 I will also praise you with the harp for your faithfulness, O my God; I will sing praises to you with the
lyre, O Holy One of Israel.
Psa 71:23 My lips will shout for joy, when I sing praises to you; my soul also, which you have redeemed.
Psa 71:24 And my tongue will talk of your righteous help all the day long, for they have been put to shame and
disappointed who sought to do me hurt.
Psa 72:1 OF SOLOMON.Give the king your justice, O God, and your righteousness to the royal son!
Psa 72:2 May he judge your people with righteousness, and your poor with justice!
Psa 72:3 Let the mountains bear prosperity for the people, and the hills, in righteousness!
Psa 72:4 May he defend the cause of the poor of the people, give deliverance to the children of the needy, and
crush the oppressor!
Psa 72:5 May they fear you while the sun endures, and as long as the moon, throughout all generations!
Psa 72:6 May he be like rain that falls on the mown grass, like showers that water the earth!
Psa 72:7 In his days may the righteous flourish, and peace abound, till the moon be no more!
Psa 72:8 May he have dominion from sea to sea, and from the River to the ends of the earth!
Psa 72:9 May desert tribes bow down before him and his enemies lick the dust!
Psa 72:10 May the kings of Tarshish and of the coastlands render him tribute; may the kings of Sheba and
Seba bring gifts!
Psa 72:11 May all kings fall down before him, all nations serve him!
Psa 72:12 For he delivers the needy when he calls, the poor and him who has no helper.
Psa 72:13 He has pity on the weak and the needy, and saves the lives of the needy.
Psa 72:14 From oppression and violence he redeems their life, and precious is their blood in his sight.
Psa 72:15 Long may he live; may gold of Sheba be given to him! May prayer be made for him continually, and
blessings invoked for him all the day!
Psa 72:16 May there be abundance of grain in the land; on the tops of the mountains may it wave; may its fruit
be like Lebanon; and may people blossom in the cities like the grass of the field!
Psa 72:17 May his name endure forever, his fame continue as long as the sun! May people be blessed in him,all nations call him blessed!
Psa 72:18 Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, who alone does wondrous things.
Psa 72:19 Blessed be his glorious name forever; may the whole earth be filled with his glory! Amen and Amen!
Psa 72:20 The prayers of David, the son of Jesse, are ended. BOOK THREE
Psa 73:1 A PSALM OF ASAPH.Truly God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart.
Psa 73:2 But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, my steps had nearly slipped.
Psa 73:3 For I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.
Psa 73:4 For they have no pangs until death; their bodies are fat and sleek.
Psa 73:5 They are not in trouble as others are; they are not stricken like the rest of mankind.
Psa 73:6 Therefore pride is their necklace; violence covers them as a garment.
Psa 73:7 Their eyes swell out through fatness; their hearts overflow with follies.
Psa 73:8 They scoff and speak with malice; loftily they threaten oppression.
Psa 73:9 They set their mouths against the heavens, and their tongue struts through the earth.
Psa 73:10 Therefore his people turn back to them, and find no fault in them.
Psa 73:11 And they say, "How can God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High?"
Psa 73:12 Behold, these are the wicked; always at ease, they increase in riches.
Psa 73:13 All in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence.
Psa 73:14 For all the day long I have been stricken and rebuked every morning.
Psa 73:15 If I had said, "I will speak thus," I would have betrayed the generation of your children.
Psa 73:16 But when I thought how to understand this, it seemed to me a wearisome task,
Psa 73:17 until I went into the sanctuary of God; then I discerned their end.
Psa 73:18 Truly you set them in slippery places; you make them fall to ruin.
Psa 73:19 How they are destroyed in a moment, swept away utterly by terrors!
Psa 73:20 Like a dream when one awakes, O Lord, when you rouse yourself, you despise them as phantoms.
Psa 73:21 When my soul was embittered, when I was pricked in heart,
Psa 73:22 I was brutish and ignorant; I was like a beast toward you.
Psa 73:23 Nevertheless, I am continually with you; you hold my right hand.
Psa 73:24 You guide me with your counsel, and afterward you will receive me to glory.
Psa 73:25 Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you.
Psa 73:26 My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever.
Psa 73:27 For behold, those who are far from you shall perish; you put an end to everyone who is unfaithful to
you.
Psa 73:28 But for me it is good to be near God; I have made the Lord GOD my refuge, that I may tell of all your
works.
Psa 74:1 A MASKIL OF ASAPH.O God, why do you cast us off forever? Why does your anger smoke against
the sheep of your pasture?
Psa 74:2 Remember your congregation, which you have purchased of old, which you have redeemed to be the
tribe of your heritage! Remember Mount Zion, where you have dwelt.
Psa 74:3 Direct your steps to the perpetual ruins; the enemy has destroyed everything in the sanctuary!
Psa 74:4 Your foes have roared in the midst of your meeting place; they set up their own signs for signs.
Psa 74:5 They were like those who swing axes in a forest of trees.
Psa 74:6 And all its carved wood they broke down with hatchets and hammers.
Psa 74:7 They set your sanctuary on fire; they profaned the dwelling place of your name, bringing it down to the
ground.
Psa 74:8 They said to themselves, "We will utterly subdue them"; they burned all the meeting places of God in
the land.
Psa 74:9 We do not see our signs; there is no longer any prophet, and there is none among us who knows how
long.
Psa 74:10 How long, O God, is the foe to scoff? Is the enemy to revile your name forever?
Psa 74:11 Why do you hold back your hand, your right hand? Take it from the fold of your garment and destroy
them!
Psa 74:12 Yet God my King is from of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth.
Psa 74:13 You divided the sea by your might; you broke the heads of the sea monsters on the waters.
Psa 74:14 You crushed the heads of Leviathan; you gave him as food for the creatures of the wilderness.
Psa 74:15 You split open springs and brooks; you dried up ever-flowing streams.
Psa 74:16 Yours is the day, yours also the night; you have established the heavenly lights and the sun.
Psa 74:17 You have fixed all the boundaries of the earth; you have made summer and winter.
Psa 74:18 Remember this, O LORD, how the enemy scoffs, and a foolish people reviles your name.
Psa 74:19 Do not deliver the soul of your dove to the wild beasts; do not forget the life of your poor forever.Psa 74:20 Have regard for the covenant, for the dark places of the land are full of the habitations of violence.
Psa 74:21 Let not the downtrodden turn back in shame; let the poor and needy praise your name.
Psa 74:22 Arise, O God, defend your cause; remember how the foolish scoff at you all the day!
Psa 74:23 Do not forget the clamor of your foes, the uproar of those who rise against you, which goes up
continually!
Psa 75:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO DO NOT DESTROY. A PSALM OF ASAPH. A SONG.
We give thanks to you, O God; we give thanks, for your name is near. We recount your wondrous deeds.
Psa 75:2 "At the set time that I appoint I will judge with equity.
Psa 75:3 When the earth totters, and all its inhabitants, it is I who keep steady its pillars. Selah
Psa 75:4 I say to the boastful, 'Do not boast,' and to the wicked, 'Do not lift up your horn;
Psa 75:5 do not lift up your horn on high, or speak with haughty neck.'"
Psa 75:6 For not from the east or from the west and not from the wilderness comes lifting up,
Psa 75:7 but it is God who executes judgment, putting down one and lifting up another.
Psa 75:8 For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup with foaming wine, well mixed, and he pours out from it,
and all the wicked of the earth shall drain it down to the dregs.
Psa 75:9 But I will declare it forever; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob.
Psa 75:10 All the horns of the wicked I will cut off, but the horns of the righteous shall be lifted up.
Psa 76:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: WITH STRINGED INSTRUMENTS. A PSALM OF ASAPH. A SONG. In
Judah God is known; his name is great in Israel.
Psa 76:2 His abode has been established in Salem, his dwelling place in Zion.
Psa 76:3 There he broke the flashing arrows, the shield, the sword, and the weapons of war. Selah
Psa 76:4 Glorious are you, more majestic than the mountains of prey.
Psa 76:5 The stouthearted were stripped of their spoil; they sank into sleep; all the men of war were unable to
use their hands.
Psa 76:6 At your rebuke, O God of Jacob, both rider and horse lay stunned.
Psa 76:7 But you, you are to be feared! Who can stand before you when once your anger is roused?
Psa 76:8 From the heavens you uttered judgment; the earth feared and was still,
Psa 76:9 when God arose to establish judgment, to save all the humble of the earth. Selah
Psa 76:10 Surely the wrath of man shall praise you; the remnant of wrath you will put on like a belt.
Psa 76:11 Make your vows to the LORD your God and perform them; let all around him bring gifts to him who is
to be feared,
Psa 76:12 who cuts off the spirit of princes, who is to be feared by the kings of the earth.
Psa 77:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO JEDUTHUN. A PSALM OF ASAPH. I cry aloud to God,
aloud to God, and he will hear me.
Psa 77:2 In the day of my trouble I seek the Lord; in the night my hand is stretched out without wearying; my
soul refuses to be comforted.
Psa 77:3 When I remember God, I moan; when I meditate, my spirit faints. Selah
Psa 77:4 You hold my eyelids open; I am so troubled that I cannot speak.
Psa 77:5 I consider the days of old, the years long ago.
Psa 77:6 I said, "Let me remember my song in the night; let me meditate in my heart." Then my spirit made a
diligent search:
Psa 77:7 "Will the Lord spurn forever, and never again be favorable?
Psa 77:8 Has his steadfast love forever ceased? Are his promises at an end for all time?
Psa 77:9 Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has he in anger shut up his compassion?" Selah
Psa 77:10 Then I said, "I will appeal to this, to the years of the right hand of the Most High."
Psa 77:11 I will remember the deeds of the LORD; yes, I will remember your wonders of old.
Psa 77:12 I will ponder all your work, and meditate on your mighty deeds.
Psa 77:13 Your way, O God, is holy. What god is great like our God?
Psa 77:14 You are the God who works wonders; you have made known your might among the peoples.
Psa 77:15 You with your arm redeemed your people, the children of Jacob and Joseph. Selah
Psa 77:16 When the waters saw you, O God, when the waters saw you, they were afraid; indeed, the deep
trembled.
Psa 77:17 The clouds poured out water; the skies gave forth thunder; your arrows flashed on every side.
Psa 77:18 The crash of your thunder was in the whirlwind; your lightnings lighted up the world; the earth
trembled and shook.
Psa 77:19 Your way was through the sea, your path through the great waters; yet your footprints were unseen.
Psa 77:20 You led your people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron.
Psa 78:1 A MASKIL OF ASAPH. Give ear, O my people, to my teaching; incline your ears to the words of my
mouth!Psa 78:2 I will open my mouth in a parable; I will utter dark sayings from of old,
Psa 78:3 things that we have heard and known, that our fathers have told us.
Psa 78:4 We will not hide them from their children, but tell to the coming generation the glorious deeds of the
LORD, and his might, and the wonders that he has done.
Psa 78:5 He established a testimony in Jacob and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers
to teach to their children,
Psa 78:6 that the next generation might know them, the children yet unborn, and arise and tell them to their
children,
Psa 78:7 so that they should set their hope in God and not forget the works of God, but keep his
commandments;
Psa 78:8 and that they should not be like their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation, a generation
whose heart was not steadfast, whose spirit was not faithful to God.
Psa 78:9 The Ephraimites, armed with the bow, turned back on the day of battle.
Psa 78:10 They did not keep God's covenant, but refused to walk according to his law.
Psa 78:11 They forgot his works and the wonders that he had shown them.
Psa 78:12 In the sight of their fathers he performed wonders in the land of Egypt, in the fields of Zoan.
Psa 78:13 He divided the sea and let them pass through it, and made the waters stand like a heap.
Psa 78:14 In the daytime he led them with a cloud, and all the night with a fiery light.
Psa 78:15 He split rocks in the wilderness and gave them drink abundantly as from the deep.
Psa 78:16 He made streams come out of the rock and caused waters to flow down like rivers.
Psa 78:17 Yet they sinned still more against him, rebelling against the Most High in the desert.
Psa 78:18 They tested God in their heart by demanding the food they craved.
Psa 78:19 They spoke against God, saying, "Can God spread a table in the wilderness?
Psa 78:20 He struck the rock so that water gushed out and streams overflowed. Can he also give bread or
provide meat for his people?"
Psa 78:21 Therefore, when the LORD heard, he was full of wrath; a fire was kindled against Jacob; his anger
rose against Israel,
Psa 78:22 because they did not believe in God and did not trust his saving power.
Psa 78:23 Yet he commanded the skies above and opened the doors of heaven,
Psa 78:24 and he rained down on them manna to eat and gave them the grain of heaven.
Psa 78:25 Man ate of the bread of the angels; he sent them food in abundance.
Psa 78:26 He caused the east wind to blow in the heavens, and by his power he led out the south wind;
Psa 78:27 he rained meat on them like dust, winged birds like the sand of the seas;
Psa 78:28 he let them fall in the midst of their camp, all around their dwellings.
Psa 78:29 And they ate and were well filled, for he gave them what they craved.
Psa 78:30 But before they had satisfied their craving, while the food was still in their mouths,
Psa 78:31 the anger of God rose against them, and he killed the strongest of them and laid low the young men
of Israel.
Psa 78:32 In spite of all this, they still sinned; despite his wonders, they did not believe.
Psa 78:33 So he made their days vanish like a breath, and their years in terror.
Psa 78:34 When he killed them, they sought him; they repented and sought God earnestly.
Psa 78:35 They remembered that God was their rock, the Most High God their redeemer.
Psa 78:36 But they flattered him with their mouths; they lied to him with their tongues.
Psa 78:37 Their heart was not steadfast toward him; they were not faithful to his covenant.
Psa 78:38 Yet he, being compassionate, atoned for their iniquity and did not destroy them; he restrained his
anger often and did not stir up all his wrath.
Psa 78:39 He remembered that they were but flesh, a wind that passes and comes not again.
Psa 78:40 How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness and grieved him in the desert!
Psa 78:41 They tested God again and again and provoked the Holy One of Israel.
Psa 78:42 They did not remember his power or the day when he redeemed them from the foe,
Psa 78:43 when he performed his signs in Egypt and his marvels in the fields of Zoan.
Psa 78:44 He turned their rivers to blood, so that they could not drink of their streams.
Psa 78:45 He sent among them swarms of flies, which devoured them, and frogs, which destroyed them.
Psa 78:46 He gave their crops to the destroying locust and the fruit of their labor to the locust.
Psa 78:47 He destroyed their vines with hail and their sycamores with frost.
Psa 78:48 He gave over their cattle to the hail and their flocks to thunderbolts.
Psa 78:49 He let loose on them his burning anger, wrath, indignation, and distress, a company of destroying
angels.
Psa 78:50 He made a path for his anger; he did not spare them from death, but gave their lives over to theplague.
Psa 78:51 He struck down every firstborn in Egypt, the firstfruits of their strength in the tents of Ham.
Psa 78:52 Then he led out his people like sheep and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.
Psa 78:53 He led them in safety, so that they were not afraid, but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.
Psa 78:54 And he brought them to his holy land, to the mountain which his right hand had won.
Psa 78:55 He drove out nations before them; he apportioned them for a possession and settled the tribes of
Israel in their tents.
Psa 78:56 Yet they tested and rebelled against the Most High God and did not keep his testimonies,
Psa 78:57 but turned away and acted treacherously like their fathers; they twisted like a deceitful bow.
Psa 78:58 For they provoked him to anger with their high places; they moved him to jealousy with their idols.
Psa 78:59 When God heard, he was full of wrath, and he utterly rejected Israel.
Psa 78:60 He forsook his dwelling at Shiloh, the tent where he dwelt among mankind,
Psa 78:61 and delivered his power to captivity, his glory to the hand of the foe.
Psa 78:62 He gave his people over to the sword and vented his wrath on his heritage.
Psa 78:63 Fire devoured their young men, and their young women had no marriage song.
Psa 78:64 Their priests fell by the sword, and their widows made no lamentation.
Psa 78:65 Then the Lord awoke as from sleep, like a strong man shouting because of wine.
Psa 78:66 And he put his adversaries to rout; he put them to everlasting shame.
Psa 78:67 He rejected the tent of Joseph; he did not choose the tribe of Ephraim,
Psa 78:68 but he chose the tribe of Judah, Mount Zion, which he loves.
Psa 78:69 He built his sanctuary like the high heavens, like the earth, which he has founded forever.
Psa 78:70 He chose David his servant and took him from the sheepfolds;
Psa 78:71 from following the nursing ewes he brought him to shepherd Jacob his people, Israel his inheritance.
Psa 78:72 With upright heart he shepherded them and guided them with his skillful hand.
Psa 79:1 A PSALM OF ASAPH.O God, the nations have come into your inheritance; they have defiled your holy
temple; they have laid Jerusalem in ruins.
Psa 79:2 They have given the bodies of your servants to the birds of the heavens for food, the flesh of your
faithful to the beasts of the earth.
Psa 79:3 They have poured out their blood like water all around Jerusalem, and there was no one to bury them.
Psa 79:4 We have become a taunt to our neighbors, mocked and derided by those around us.
Psa 79:5 How long, O LORD? Will you be angry forever? Will your jealousy burn like fire?
Psa 79:6 Pour out your anger on the nations that do not know you, and on the kingdoms that do not call upon
your name!
Psa 79:7 For they have devoured Jacob and laid waste his habitation.
Psa 79:8 Do not remember against us our former iniquities; let your compassion come speedily to meet us, for
we are brought very low.
Psa 79:9 Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of your name; deliver us, and atone for our sins, for your
name's sake!
Psa 79:10 Why should the nations say, "Where is their God?" Let the avenging of the outpoured blood of your
servants be known among the nations before our eyes!
Psa 79:11 Let the groans of the prisoners come before you; according to your great power, preserve those
doomed to die!
Psa 79:12 Return sevenfold into the lap of our neighbors the taunts with which they have taunted you, O Lord!
Psa 79:13 But we your people, the sheep of your pasture, will give thanks to you forever; from generation to
generation we will recount your praise.
Psa 80:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO LILIES. A TESTIMONY. OF ASAPH, A PSALM. Give
ear, O Shepherd of Israel, you who lead Joseph like a flock! You who are enthroned upon the cherubim, shine
forth.
Psa 80:2 Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up your might and come to save us!
Psa 80:3 Restore us, O God; let your face shine, that we may be saved!
Psa 80:4 O LORD God of hosts, how long will you be angry with your people's prayers?
Psa 80:5 You have fed them with the bread of tears and given them tears to drink in full measure.
Psa 80:6 You make us an object of contention for our neighbors, and our enemies laugh among themselves.
Psa 80:7 Restore us, O God of hosts; let your face shine, that we may be saved!
Psa 80:8 You brought a vine out of Egypt; you drove out the nations and planted it.
Psa 80:9 You cleared the ground for it; it took deep root and filled the land.
Psa 80:10 The mountains were covered with its shade, the mighty cedars with its branches.
Psa 80:11 It sent out its branches to the sea and its shoots to the River.
Psa 80:12 Why then have you broken down its walls, so that all who pass along the way pluck its fruit?Psa 80:13 The boar from the forest ravages it, and all that move in the field feed on it.
Psa 80:14 Turn again, O God of hosts! Look down from heaven, and see; have regard for this vine,
Psa 80:15 the stock that your right hand planted, and for the son whom you made strong for yourself.
Psa 80:16 They have burned it with fire; they have cut it down; may they perish at the rebuke of your face!
Psa 80:17 But let your hand be on the man of your right hand, the son of man whom you have made strong for
yourself!
Psa 80:18 Then we shall not turn back from you; give us life, and we will call upon your name!
Psa 80:19 Restore us, O LORD God of hosts! let your face shine, that we may be saved!
Psa 81:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO THE GITTITH. OF ASAPH. Sing aloud to God our
strength; shout for joy to the God of Jacob!
Psa 81:2 Raise a song; sound the tambourine, the sweet lyre with the harp.
Psa 81:3 Blow the trumpet at the new moon, at the full moon, on our feast day.
Psa 81:4 For it is a statute for Israel, a rule of the God of Jacob.
Psa 81:5 He made it a decree in Joseph when he went out over the land of Egypt. I hear a language I had not
known:
Psa 81:6 "I relieved your shoulder of the burden; your hands were freed from the basket.
Psa 81:7 In distress you called, and I delivered you; I answered you in the secret place of thunder; I tested you
at the waters of Meribah. Selah
Psa 81:8 Hear, O my people, while I admonish you! O Israel, if you would but listen to me!
Psa 81:9 There shall be no strange god among you; you shall not bow down to a foreign god.
Psa 81:10 I am the LORD your God, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide, and I
will fill it.
Psa 81:11 "But my people did not listen to my voice; Israel would not submit to me.
Psa 81:12 So I gave them over to their stubborn hearts, to follow their own counsels.
Psa 81:13 Oh, that my people would listen to me, that Israel would walk in my ways!
Psa 81:14 I would soon subdue their enemies and turn my hand against their foes.
Psa 81:15 Those who hate the LORD would cringe toward him, and their fate would last forever.
Psa 81:16 But he would feed you with the finest of the wheat, and with honey from the rock I would satisfy you."
Psa 82:1 A PSALM OF ASAPH. God has taken his place in the divine council; in the midst of the gods he holds
judgment:
Psa 82:2 "How long will you judge unjustly and show partiality to the wicked? Selah
Psa 82:3 Give justice to the weak and the fatherless; maintain the right of the afflicted and the destitute.
Psa 82:4 Rescue the weak and the needy; deliver them from the hand of the wicked."
Psa 82:5 They have neither knowledge nor understanding, they walk about in darkness; all the foundations of
the earth are shaken.
Psa 82:6 I said, "You are gods, sons of the Most High, all of you;
Psa 82:7 nevertheless, like men you shall die, and fall like any prince."
Psa 82:8 Arise, O God, judge the earth; for you shall inherit all the nations!
Psa 83:1 A SONG. A PSALM OF ASAPH.O God, do not keep silence; do not hold your peace or be still, O God!
Psa 83:2 For behold, your enemies make an uproar; those who hate you have raised their heads.
Psa 83:3 They lay crafty plans against your people; they consult together against your treasured ones.
Psa 83:4 They say, "Come, let us wipe them out as a nation; let the name of Israel be remembered no more!"
Psa 83:5 For they conspire with one accord; against you they make a covenantPsa 83:6 the tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites, Moab and the Hagrites,
Psa 83:7 Gebal and Ammon and Amalek, Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre;
Psa 83:8 Asshur also has joined them; they are the strong arm of the children of Lot. Selah
Psa 83:9 Do to them as you did to Midian, as to Sisera and Jabin at the river Kishon,
Psa 83:10 who were destroyed at En-dor, who became dung for the ground.
Psa 83:11 Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb, all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna,
Psa 83:12 who said, "Let us take possession for ourselves of the pastures of God."
Psa 83:13 O my God, make them like whirling dust, like chaff before the wind.
Psa 83:14 As fire consumes the forest, as the flame sets the mountains ablaze,
Psa 83:15 so may you pursue them with your tempest and terrify them with your hurricane!
Psa 83:16 Fill their faces with shame, that they may seek your name, O LORD.
Psa 83:17 Let them be put to shame and dismayed forever; let them perish in disgrace,
Psa 83:18 that they may know that you alone, whose name is the LORD, are the Most High over all the earth.
Psa 84:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO THE GITTITH. A PSALM OF THE SONS OF KORAH.
How lovely is your dwelling place, O LORD of hosts!
Psa 84:2 My soul longs, yes, faints for the courts of the LORD; my heart and flesh sing for joy to the living God.Psa 84:3 Even the sparrow finds a home, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, at
your altars, O LORD of hosts, my King and my God.
Psa 84:4 Blessed are those who dwell in your house, ever singing your praise! Selah
Psa 84:5 Blessed are those whose strength is in you, in whose heart are the highways to Zion.
Psa 84:6 As they go through the Valley of Baca they make it a place of springs; the early rain also covers it with
pools.
Psa 84:7 They go from strength to strength; each one appears before God in Zion.
Psa 84:8 O LORD God of hosts, hear my prayer; give ear, O God of Jacob! Selah
Psa 84:9 Behold our shield, O God; look on the face of your anointed!
Psa 84:10 For a day in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the
house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness.
Psa 84:11 For the LORD God is a sun and shield; the LORD bestows favor and honor. No good thing does he
withhold from those who walk uprightly.
Psa 84:12 O LORD of hosts, blessed is the one who trusts in you!
Psa 85:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF THE SONS OF KORAH. LORD, you were favorable to your
land; you restored the fortunes of Jacob.
Psa 85:2 You forgave the iniquity of your people; you covered all their sin. Selah
Psa 85:3 You withdrew all your wrath; you turned from your hot anger.
Psa 85:4 Restore us again, O God of our salvation, and put away your indignation toward us!
Psa 85:5 Will you be angry with us forever? Will you prolong your anger to all generations?
Psa 85:6 Will you not revive us again, that your people may rejoice in you?
Psa 85:7 Show us your steadfast love, O LORD, and grant us your salvation.
Psa 85:8 Let me hear what God the LORD will speak, for he will speak peace to his people, to his saints; but let
them not turn back to folly.
Psa 85:9 Surely his salvation is near to those who fear him, that glory may dwell in our land.
Psa 85:10 Steadfast love and faithfulness meet; righteousness and peace kiss each other.
Psa 85:11 Faithfulness springs up from the ground, and righteousness looks down from the sky.
Psa 85:12 Yes, the LORD will give what is good, and our land will yield its increase.
Psa 85:13 Righteousness will go before him and make his footsteps a way.
Psa 86:1 A PRAYER OF DAVID. Incline your ear, O LORD, and answer me, for I am poor and needy.
Psa 86:2 Preserve my life, for I am godly; save your servant, who trusts in you- you are my God.
Psa 86:3 Be gracious to me, O Lord, for to you do I cry all the day.
Psa 86:4 Gladden the soul of your servant, for to you, O Lord, do I lift up my soul.
Psa 86:5 For you, O Lord, are good and forgiving, abounding in steadfast love to all who call upon you.
Psa 86:6 Give ear, O LORD, to my prayer; listen to my plea for grace.
Psa 86:7 In the day of my trouble I call upon you, for you answer me.
Psa 86:8 There is none like you among the gods, O Lord, nor are there any works like yours.
Psa 86:9 All the nations you have made shall come and worship before you, O Lord, and shall glorify your
name.
Psa 86:10 For you are great and do wondrous things; you alone are God.
Psa 86:11 Teach me your way, O LORD, that I may walk in your truth; unite my heart to fear your name.
Psa 86:12 I give thanks to you, O Lord my God, with my whole heart, and I will glorify your name forever.
Psa 86:13 For great is your steadfast love toward me; you have delivered my soul from the depths of Sheol.
Psa 86:14 O God, insolent men have risen up against me; a band of ruthless men seek my life, and they do not
set you before them.
Psa 86:15 But you, O Lord, are a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and
faithfulness.
Psa 86:16 Turn to me and be gracious to me; give your strength to your servant, and save the son of your
maidservant.
Psa 86:17 Show me a sign of your favor, that those who hate me may see and be put to shame because you,
LORD, have helped me and comforted me.
Psa 87:1 A PSALM OF THE SONS OF KORAH. A SONG. On the holy mount stands the city he founded;
Psa 87:2 the LORD loves the gates of Zion more than all the dwelling places of Jacob.
Psa 87:3 Glorious things of you are spoken, O city of God. Selah
Psa 87:4 Among those who know me I mention Rahab and Babylon; behold, Philistia and Tyre, with Cush- "This
one was born there," they say.
Psa 87:5 And of Zion it shall be said, "This one and that one were born in her"; for the Most High himself will
establish her.
Psa 87:6 The LORD records as he registers the peoples, "This one was born there." SelahPsa 87:7 Singers and dancers alike say, "All my springs are in you."
Psa 88:1 A SONG. A PSALM OF THE SONS OF KORAH. TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO
MAHALATH LEANNOTH. A MASKIL OF HEMAN THE EZRAHITE. O LORD, God of my salvation; I cry out day
and night before you.
Psa 88:2 Let my prayer come before you; incline your ear to my cry!
Psa 88:3 For my soul is full of troubles, and my life draws near to Sheol.
Psa 88:4 I am counted among those who go down to the pit; I am a man who has no strength,
Psa 88:5 like one set loose among the dead, like the slain that lie in the grave, like those whom you remember
no more, for they are cut off from your hand.
Psa 88:6 You have put me in the depths of the pit, in the regions dark and deep.
Psa 88:7 Your wrath lies heavy upon me, and you overwhelm me with all your waves. Selah
Psa 88:8 You have caused my companions to shun me; you have made me a horror to them. I am shut in so
that I cannot escape;
Psa 88:9 my eye grows dim through sorrow. Every day I call upon you, O LORD; I spread out my hands to you.
Psa 88:10 Do you work wonders for the dead? Do the departed rise up to praise you? Selah
Psa 88:11 Is your steadfast love declared in the grave, or your faithfulness in Abaddon?
Psa 88:12 Are your wonders known in the darkness, or your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness?
Psa 88:13 But I, O LORD, cry to you; in the morning my prayer comes before you.
Psa 88:14 O LORD, why do you cast my soul away? Why do you hide your face from me?
Psa 88:15 Afflicted and close to death from my youth up, I suffer your terrors; I am helpless.
Psa 88:16 Your wrath has swept over me; your dreadful assaults destroy me.
Psa 88:17 They surround me like a flood all day long; they close in on me together.
Psa 88:18 You have caused my beloved and my friend to shun me; my companions have become darkness.
Psa 89:1 A MASKIL OF ETHAN THE EZRAHITE. I will sing of the steadfast love of the LORD, forever; with my
mouth I will make known your faithfulness to all generations.
Psa 89:2 For I said, "Steadfast love will be built up forever; in the heavens you will establish your faithfulness."
Psa 89:3 You have said, "I have made a covenant with my chosen one; I have sworn to David my servant:
Psa 89:4 'I will establish your offspring forever, and build your throne for all generations.'"Selah
Psa 89:5 Let the heavens praise your wonders, O LORD, your faithfulness in the assembly of the holy ones!
Psa 89:6 For who in the skies can be compared to the LORD? Who among the heavenly beings is like the
LORD,
Psa 89:7 a God greatly to be feared in the council of the holy ones, and awesome above all who are around
him?
Psa 89:8 O LORD God of hosts, who is mighty as you are, O LORD, with your faithfulness all around you?
Psa 89:9 You rule the raging of the sea; when its waves rise, you still them.
Psa 89:10 You crushed Rahab like a carcass; you scattered your enemies with your mighty arm.
Psa 89:11 The heavens are yours; the earth also is yours; the world and all that is in it, you have founded them.
Psa 89:12 The north and the south, you have created them; Tabor and Hermon joyously praise your name.
Psa 89:13 You have a mighty arm; strong is your hand, high your right hand.
Psa 89:14 Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne; steadfast love and faithfulness go
before you.
Psa 89:15 Blessed are the people who know the festal shout, who walk, O LORD, in the light of your face,
Psa 89:16 who exult in your name all the day and in your righteousness are exalted.
Psa 89:17 For you are the glory of their strength; by your favor our horn is exalted.
Psa 89:18 For our shield belongs to the LORD, our king to the Holy One of Israel.
Psa 89:19 Of old you spoke in a vision to your godly one, and said: "I have granted help to one who is mighty; I
have exalted one chosen from the people.
Psa 89:20 I have found David, my servant; with my holy oil I have anointed him,
Psa 89:21 so that my hand shall be established with him; my arm also shall strengthen him.
Psa 89:22 The enemy shall not outwit him; the wicked shall not humble him.
Psa 89:23 I will crush his foes before him and strike down those who hate him.
Psa 89:24 My faithfulness and my steadfast love shall be with him, and in my name shall his horn be exalted.
Psa 89:25 I will set his hand on the sea and his right hand on the rivers.
Psa 89:26 He shall cry to me, 'You are my Father, my God, and the Rock of my salvation.'
Psa 89:27 And I will make him the firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth.
Psa 89:28 My steadfast love I will keep for him forever, and my covenant will stand firm for him.
Psa 89:29 I will establish his offspring forever and his throne as the days of the heavens.
Psa 89:30 If his children forsake my law and do not walk according to my rules,
Psa 89:31 if they violate my statutes and do not keep my commandments,Psa 89:32 then I will punish their transgression with the rod and their iniquity with stripes,
Psa 89:33 but I will not remove from him my steadfast love or be false to my faithfulness.
Psa 89:34 I will not violate my covenant or alter the word that went forth from my lips.
Psa 89:35 Once for all I have sworn by my holiness; I will not lie to David.
Psa 89:36 His offspring shall endure forever, his throne as long as the sun before me.
Psa 89:37 Like the moon it shall be established forever, a faithful witness in the skies." Selah
Psa 89:38 But now you have cast off and rejected; you are full of wrath against your anointed.
Psa 89:39 You have renounced the covenant with your servant; you have defiled his crown in the dust.
Psa 89:40 You have breached all his walls; you have laid his strongholds in ruins.
Psa 89:41 All who pass by plunder him; he has become the scorn of his neighbors.
Psa 89:42 You have exalted the right hand of his foes; you have made all his enemies rejoice.
Psa 89:43 You have also turned back the edge of his sword, and you have not made him stand in battle.
Psa 89:44 You have made his splendor to cease and cast his throne to the ground.
Psa 89:45 You have cut short the days of his youth; you have covered him with shame. Selah
Psa 89:46 How long, O LORD? Will you hide yourself forever? How long will your wrath burn like fire?
Psa 89:47 Remember how short my time is! For what vanity you have created all the children of man!
Psa 89:48 What man can live and never see death? Who can deliver his soul from the power of Sheol? Selah
Psa 89:49 Lord, where is your steadfast love of old, which by your faithfulness you swore to David?
Psa 89:50 Remember, O Lord, how your servants are mocked, and how I bear in my heart the insults of all the
many nations,
Psa 89:51 with which your enemies mock, O LORD, with which they mock the footsteps of your anointed.
Psa 89:52 Blessed be the LORD forever! Amen and Amen. BOOK FOUR
Psa 90:1 A PRAYER OF MOSES, THE MAN OF GOD. Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all
generations.
Psa 90:2 Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world, from
everlasting to everlasting you are God.
Psa 90:3 You return man to dust and say, "Return, O children of man!"
Psa 90:4 For a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is past, or as, a watch in the night.
Psa 90:5 You sweep them away as with a flood; they are like a dream, like grass that is renewed in the morning:
Psa 90:6 in the morning it flourishes and is renewed; in the evening it fades and withers.
Psa 90:7 For we are brought to an end by your anger; by your wrath we are dismayed.
Psa 90:8 You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence.
Psa 90:9 For all our days pass away under your wrath; we bring our years to an end like a sigh.
Psa 90:10 The years of our life are seventy, or even by reason of strength eighty; yet their span is but toil and
trouble; they are soon gone, and we fly away.
Psa 90:11 Who considers the power of your anger, and your wrath according to the fear of you?
Psa 90:12 So teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom.
Psa 90:13 Return, O LORD! How long? Have pity on your servants!
Psa 90:14 Satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days.
Psa 90:15 Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us, and for as many years as we have seen
evil.
Psa 90:16 Let your work be shown to your servants, and your glorious power to their children.
Psa 90:17 Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us, and establish the work of our hands upon us; yes,
establish the work of our hands!
Psa 91:1 He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty.
Psa 91:2 I will say to the LORD, "My refuge and my fortress, my God, in whom I trust."
Psa 91:3 For he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler and from the deadly pestilence.
Psa 91:4 He will cover you with his pinions, and under his wings you will find refuge; his faithfulness is a shield
and buckler.
Psa 91:5 You will not fear the terror of the night, nor the arrow that flies by day,
Psa 91:6 nor the pestilence that stalks in darkness, nor the destruction that wastes at noonday.
Psa 91:7 A thousand may fall at your side, ten thousand at your right hand, but it will not come near you.
Psa 91:8 You will only look with your eyes and see the recompense of the wicked.
Psa 91:9 Because you have made the LORD your dwelling place- the Most High, who is my refugePsa 91:10 no evil shall be allowed to befall you, no plague come near your tent.
Psa 91:11 For he will command his angels concerning you to guard you in all your ways.
Psa 91:12 On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.
Psa 91:13 You will tread on the lion and the adder; the young lion and the serpent you will trample underfoot.
Psa 91:14 "Because he holds fast to me in love, I will deliver him; I will protect him, because he knows myname.
Psa 91:15 When he calls to me, I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble; I will rescue him and honor him.
Psa 91:16 With long life I will satisfy him and show him my salvation."
Psa 92:1 A PSALM. A SONG FOR THE SABBATH. It is good to give thanks to the LORD, to sing praises to
your name, O Most High;
Psa 92:2 to declare your steadfast love in the morning, and your faithfulness by night,
Psa 92:3 to the music of the lute and the harp, to the melody of the lyre.
Psa 92:4 For you, O LORD, have made me glad by your work; at the works of your hands I sing for joy.
Psa 92:5 How great are your works, O LORD! Your thoughts are very deep!
Psa 92:6 The stupid man cannot know; the fool cannot understand this:
Psa 92:7 that though the wicked sprout like grass and all evildoers flourish, they are doomed to destruction
forever;
Psa 92:8 but you, O LORD, are on high forever.
Psa 92:9 For behold, your enemies, O LORD, for behold, your enemies shall perish; all evildoers shall be
scattered.
Psa 92:10 But you have exalted my horn like that of the wild ox; you have poured over me fresh oil.
Psa 92:11 My eyes have seen the downfall of my enemies; my ears have heard the doom of my evil assailants.
Psa 92:12 The righteous flourish like the palm tree and grow like a cedar in Lebanon.
Psa 92:13 They are planted in the house of the LORD; they flourish in the courts of our God.
Psa 92:14 They still bear fruit in old age; they are ever full of sap and green,
Psa 92:15 to declare that the LORD is upright; he is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him.
Psa 93:1 The LORD reigns; he is robed in majesty; the LORD is robed; he has put on strength as his belt. Yes,
the world is established; it shall never be moved.
Psa 93:2 Your throne is established from of old; you are from everlasting.
Psa 93:3 The floods have lifted up, O LORD, the floods have lifted up their voice; the floods lift up their roaring.
Psa 93:4 Mightier than the thunders of many waters, mightier than the waves of the sea, the LORD on high is
mighty!
Psa 93:5 Your decrees are very trustworthy; holiness befits your house, O LORD, forevermore.
Psa 94:1 O LORD, God of vengeance,O God of vengeance, shine forth!!
Psa 94:2 Rise up, O judge of the earth; repay to the proud what they deserve!
Psa 94:3 O LORD, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked exult?
Psa 94:4 They pour out their arrogant words; all the evildoers boast.
Psa 94:5 They crush your people, O LORD, and afflict your heritage.
Psa 94:6 They kill the widow and the sojourner, and murder the fatherless;
Psa 94:7 and they say, "The LORD does not see; the God of Jacob does not perceive."
Psa 94:8 Understand, O dullest of the people! Fools, when will you be wise?
Psa 94:9 He who planted the ear, does he not hear? He who formed the eye, does he not see?
Psa 94:10 He who disciplines the nations, does he not rebuke? He who teaches man knowledgePsa 94:11 the LORD- knows the thoughts of man, that they are but a breath.
Psa 94:12 Blessed is the man whom you discipline, O LORD, and whom you teach out of your law,
Psa 94:13 to give him rest from days of trouble, until a pit is dug for the wicked.
Psa 94:14 For the LORD will not forsake his people; he will not abandon his heritage;
Psa 94:15 for justice will return to the righteous, and all the upright in heart will follow it.
Psa 94:16 Who rises up for me against the wicked? Who stands up for me against evildoers?
Psa 94:17 If the LORD had not been my help, my soul would soon have lived in the land of silence.
Psa 94:18 When I thought, "My foot slips," your steadfast love, O LORD, held me up.
Psa 94:19 When the cares of my heart are many, your consolations cheer my soul.
Psa 94:20 Can wicked rulers be allied with you, those who frame injustice by statute?
Psa 94:21 They band together against the life of the righteous and condemn the innocent to death.
Psa 94:22 But the LORD has become my stronghold, and my God the rock of my refuge.
Psa 94:23 He will bring back on them their iniquity and wipe them out for their wickedness; the LORD our God
will wipe them out.
Psa 95:1 Oh come, let us sing to the LORD; let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation!
Psa 95:2 Let us come into his presence with thanksgiving; let us make a joyful noise to him with songs of praise!
Psa 95:3 For the LORD is a great God, and a great King above all gods.
Psa 95:4 In his hand are the depths of the earth; the heights of the mountains are his also.
Psa 95:5 The sea is his, for he made it, and his hands formed the dry land.
Psa 95:6 Oh come, let us worship and bow down; let us kneel before the LORD, our Maker!
Psa 95:7 For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. Today, if you hearhis voice,
Psa 95:8 do not harden your hearts, as at Meribah, as on the day at Massah in the wilderness,
Psa 95:9 when your fathers put me to the test and put me to the proof, though they had seen my work.
Psa 95:10 For forty years I loathed that generation and said, "They are a people who go astray in their heart,
and they have not known my ways."
Psa 95:11 Therefore I swore in my wrath, "They shall not enter my rest."
Psa 96:1 Oh sing to the LORD a new song; sing to the LORD, all the earth!
Psa 96:2 Sing to the LORD, bless his name; tell of his salvation from day to day.
Psa 96:3 Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous works among all the peoples!
Psa 96:4 For great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised; he is to be feared above all gods.
Psa 96:5 For all the gods of the peoples are worthless idols, but the LORD made the heavens.
Psa 96:6 Splendor and majesty are before him; strength and beauty are in his sanctuary.
Psa 96:7 Ascribe to the LORD, O families of the peoples, ascribe to the LORD glory and strength!
Psa 96:8 Ascribe to the LORD the glory due his name; bring an offering, and come into his courts!
Psa 96:9 Worship the LORD in the splendor of holiness; tremble before him, all the earth!
Psa 96:10 Say among the nations, "The LORD reigns! Yes, the world is established; it shall never be moved; he
will judge the peoples with equity."
Psa 96:11 Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; let the sea roar, and all that fills it;
Psa 96:12 let the field exult, and everything in it! Then shall all the trees of the forest sing for joy
Psa 96:13 before the LORD, for he comes, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world in
righteousness, and the peoples in his faithfulness.
Psa 97:1 The LORD reigns, let the earth rejoice; let the many coastlands be glad!
Psa 97:2 Clouds and thick darkness are all around him; righteousness and justice are the foundation of his
throne.
Psa 97:3 Fire goes before him and burns up his adversaries all around.
Psa 97:4 His lightnings light up the world; the earth sees and trembles.
Psa 97:5 The mountains melt like wax before the LORD, before the Lord of all the earth.
Psa 97:6 The heavens proclaim his righteousness, and all the peoples see his glory.
Psa 97:7 All worshipers of images are put to shame, who make their boast in worthless idols; worship him, all
you gods!
Psa 97:8 Zion hears and is glad, and the daughters of Judah rejoice, because of your judgments, O LORD.
Psa 97:9 For you, O LORD, are most high over all the earth; you are exalted far above all gods.
Psa 97:10 O you who love the LORD, hate evil! He preserves the lives of his saints; he delivers them from the
hand of the wicked.
Psa 97:11 Light is sown for the righteous, and joy for the upright in heart.
Psa 97:12 Rejoice in the LORD, O you righteous, and give thanks to his holy name!
Psa 98:1 A PSALM.Oh sing to the LORD a new song, for he has done marvelous things! His right hand and his
holy arm have worked salvation for him.
Psa 98:2 The LORD has made known his salvation; he has revealed his righteousness in the sight of the
nations.
Psa 98:3 He has remembered his steadfast love and faithfulness to the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth
have seen the salvation of our God.
Psa 98:4 Make a joyful noise to the LORD, all the earth; break forth into joyous song and sing praises!
Psa 98:5 Sing praises to the LORD with the lyre, with the lyre and the sound of melody!
Psa 98:6 With trumpets and the sound of the horn make a joyful noise before the King, the LORD!
Psa 98:7 Let the sea roar, and all that fills it; the world and those who dwell in it!
Psa 98:8 Let the rivers clap their hands; let the hills sing for joy together
Psa 98:9 before the LORD, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness, and the
peoples with equity.
Psa 99:1 The LORD reigns; let the peoples tremble! He sits enthroned upon the cherubim; let the earth quake!
Psa 99:2 The LORD is great in Zion; he is exalted over all the peoples.
Psa 99:3 Let them praise your great and awesome name! Holy is he!
Psa 99:4 The King in his might loves justice. You have established equity; you have executed justice and
righteousness in Jacob.
Psa 99:5 Exalt the LORD our God; worship at his footstool! Holy is he!
Psa 99:6 Moses and Aaron were among his priests, Samuel also was among those who called upon his name.
They called to the LORD, and he answered them.
Psa 99:7 In the pillar of the cloud he spoke to them; they kept his testimonies and the statute that he gave them.
Psa 99:8 O LORD our God, you answered them; you were a forgiving God to them, but an avenger of theirwrongdoings.
Psa 99:9 Exalt the LORD our God, and worship at his holy mountain; for the LORD our God is holy!
Psa 100:1 A PSALM FOR GIVING THANKS. Make a joyful noise to the LORD, all the earth!
Psa 100:2 Serve the LORD with gladness! Come into his presence with singing!
Psa 100:3 Know that the LORD, he is God! It is he who made us, and we are his; we are his people, and the
sheep of his pasture.
Psa 100:4 Enter his gates with thanksgiving, and his courts with praise! Give thanks to him; bless his name!
Psa 100:5 For the LORD is good; his steadfast love endures forever, and his faithfulness to all generations.
Psa 101:1 A PSALM OF DAVID.I will sing of steadfast love and justice; to you, O LORD, I will make music.
Psa 101:2 I will ponder the way that is blameless. Oh when will you come to me? I will walk with integrity of
heart within my house;
Psa 101:3 I will not set before my eyes anything that is worthless. I hate the work of those who fall away; it shall
not cling to me.
Psa 101:4 A perverse heart shall be far from me; I will know nothing of evil.
Psa 101:5 Whoever slanders his neighbor secretly I will destroy. Whoever has a haughty look and an arrogant
heart I will not endure.
Psa 101:6 I will look with favor on the faithful in the land, that they may dwell with me; he who walks in the way
that is blameless shall minister to me.
Psa 101:7 No one who practices deceit shall dwell in my house; no one who utters lies shall continue before my
eyes.
Psa 101:8 Morning by morning I will destroy all the wicked in the land, cutting off all the evildoers from the city of
the LORD.
Psa 102:1 A PRAYER OF ONE AFFLICTED, WHEN HE IS FAINT AND POURS OUT HIS COMPLAINT
BEFORE THE LORD. Hear my prayer, O LORD; let my cry come to you!
Psa 102:2 Do not hide your face from me in the day of my distress! Incline your ear to me; answer me speedily
in the day when I call!
Psa 102:3 For my days pass away like smoke, and my bones burn like a furnace.
Psa 102:4 My heart is struck down like grass and has withered; I forget to eat my bread.
Psa 102:5 Because of my loud groaning my bones cling to my flesh.
Psa 102:6 I am like a desert owl of the wilderness, like an owl of the waste places;
Psa 102:7 I lie awake; I am like a lonely sparrow on the housetop.
Psa 102:8 All the day my enemies taunt me; those who deride me use my name for a curse.
Psa 102:9 For I eat ashes like bread and mingle tears with my drink,
Psa 102:10 because of your indignation and anger; for you have taken me up and thrown me down.
Psa 102:11 My days are like an evening shadow; I wither away like grass.
Psa 102:12 But you, O LORD, are enthroned forever; you are remembered throughout all generations.
Psa 102:13 You will arise and have pity on Zion; it is the time to favor her; the appointed time has come.
Psa 102:14 For your servants hold her stones dear and have pity on her dust.
Psa 102:15 Nations will fear the name of the LORD, and all the kings of the earth will fear your glory.
Psa 102:16 For the LORD builds up Zion; he appears in his glory;
Psa 102:17 he regards the prayer of the destitute and does not despise their prayer.
Psa 102:18 Let this be recorded for a generation to come, so that a people yet to be created may praise the
LORD:
Psa 102:19 that he looked down from his holy height; from heaven the LORD looked at the earth,
Psa 102:20 to hear the groans of the prisoners, to set free those who were doomed to die,
Psa 102:21 that they may declare in Zion the name of the LORD, and in Jerusalem his praise,
Psa 102:22 when peoples gather together, and kingdoms, to worship the LORD.
Psa 102:23 He has broken my strength in midcourse; he has shortened my days.
Psa 102:24 "O my God," I say, "take me not away in the midst of my days- you whose years endure throughout
all generations!"
Psa 102:25 Of old you laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the work of your hands.
Psa 102:26 They will perish, but you will remain; they will all wear out like a garment. You will change them like
a robe, and they will pass away,
Psa 102:27 but you are the same, and your years have no end.
Psa 102:28 The children of your servants shall dwell secure; their offspring shall be established before you.
Psa 103:1 OF DAVID. Bless the LORD, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name!
Psa 103:2 Bless the LORD, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits,
Psa 103:3 who forgives all your iniquity, who heals all your diseases,
Psa 103:4 who redeems your life from the pit, who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy,Psa 103:5 who satisfies you with good so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's.
Psa 103:6 The LORD works righteousness and justice for all who are oppressed.
Psa 103:7 He made known his ways to Moses, his acts to the people of Israel.
Psa 103:8 The LORD is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love.
Psa 103:9 He will not always chide, nor will he keep his anger forever.
Psa 103:10 He does not deal with us according to our sins, nor repay us according to our iniquities.
Psa 103:11 For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his steadfast love toward those who
fear him;
Psa 103:12 as far as the east is from the west, so far does he remove our transgressions from us.
Psa 103:13 As a father shows compassion to his children, so the LORD shows compassion to those who fear
him.
Psa 103:14 For he knows our frame; he remembers that we are dust.
Psa 103:15 As for man, his days are like grass; he flourishes like a flower of the field;
Psa 103:16 for the wind passes over it, and it is gone, and its place knows it no more.
Psa 103:17 But the steadfast love of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him, and his
righteousness to children's children,
Psa 103:18 to those who keep his covenant and remember to do his commandments.
Psa 103:19 The LORD has established his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom rules over all.
Psa 103:20 Bless the LORD, O you his angels, you mighty ones who do his word, obeying the voice of his word!
Psa 103:21 Bless the LORD, all his hosts, his ministers, who do his will!
Psa 103:22 Bless the LORD, all his works, in all places of his dominion. Bless the LORD, O my soul!
Psa 104:1 Bless the LORD, O my soul!O LORD my God, you are very great! You are clothed with splendor and
majesty,
Psa 104:2 covering yourself with light as with a garment, stretching out the heavens like a tent.
Psa 104:3 He lays the beams of his chambers on the waters; he makes the clouds his chariot; he rides on the
wings of the wind;
Psa 104:4 he makes his messengers winds, his ministers a flaming fire.
Psa 104:5 He set the earth on its foundations, so that it should never be moved.
Psa 104:6 You covered it with the deep as with a garment; the waters stood above the mountains.
Psa 104:7 At your rebuke they fled; at the sound of your thunder they took to flight.
Psa 104:8 The mountains rose, the valleys sank down to the place that you appointed for them.
Psa 104:9 You set a boundary that they may not pass, so that they might not again cover the earth.
Psa 104:10 You make springs gush forth in the valleys; they flow between the hills;
Psa 104:11 they give drink to every beast of the field; the wild donkeys quench their thirst.
Psa 104:12 Beside them the birds of the heavens dwell; they sing among the branches.
Psa 104:13 From your lofty abode you water the mountains; the earth is satisfied with the fruit of your work.
Psa 104:14 You cause the grass to grow for the livestock and plants for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth
food from the earth
Psa 104:15 and wine to gladden the heart of man, oil to make his face shine and bread to strengthen man's
heart.
Psa 104:16 The trees of the LORD are watered abundantly, the cedars of Lebanon that he planted.
Psa 104:17 In them the birds build their nests; the stork has her home in the fir trees.
Psa 104:18 The high mountains are for the wild goats; the rocks are a refuge for the rock badgers.
Psa 104:19 He made the moon to mark the seasons; the sun knows its time for setting.
Psa 104:20 You make darkness, and it is night, when all the beasts of the forest creep about.
Psa 104:21 The young lions roar for their prey, seeking their food from God.
Psa 104:22 When the sun rises, they steal away and lie down in their dens.
Psa 104:23 Man goes out to his work and to his labor until the evening.
Psa 104:24 O LORD, how manifold are your works! In wisdom have you made them all; the earth is full of your
creatures.
Psa 104:25 Here is the sea, great and wide, which teems with creatures innumerable, living things both small
and great.
Psa 104:26 There go the ships, and Leviathan, which you formed to play in it.
Psa 104:27 These all look to you, to give them their food in due season.
Psa 104:28 When you give it to them, they gather it up; when you open your hand, they are filled with good
things.
Psa 104:29 When you hide your face, they are dismayed; when you take away their breath, they die and return
to their dust.
Psa 104:30 When you send forth your Spirit, they are created, and you renew the face of the ground.Psa 104:31 May the glory of the LORD endure forever; may the LORD rejoice in his works,
Psa 104:32 who looks on the earth and it trembles, who touches the mountains and they smoke!
Psa 104:33 I will sing to the LORD as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have being.
Psa 104:34 May my meditation be pleasing to him, for I rejoice in the LORD.
Psa 104:35 Let sinners be consumed from the earth, and let the wicked be no more! Bless the LORD, O my
soul! Praise the LORD!
Psa 105:1 Oh give thanks to the LORD; call upon his name; make known his deeds among the peoples!
Psa 105:2 Sing to him, sing praises to him; tell of all his wondrous works!
Psa 105:3 Glory in his holy name; let the hearts of those who seek the LORD rejoice!
Psa 105:4 Seek the LORD and his strength; seek his presence continually!
Psa 105:5 Remember the wondrous works that he has done, his miracles, and the judgments he uttered,
Psa 105:6 O offspring of Abraham, his servant, children of Jacob, his chosen ones!
Psa 105:7 He is the LORD our God; his judgments are in all the earth.
Psa 105:8 He remembers his covenant forever, the word that he commanded, for a thousand generations,
Psa 105:9 the covenant that he made with Abraham, his sworn promise to Isaac,
Psa 105:10 which he confirmed to Jacob as a statute, to Israel as an everlasting covenant,
Psa 105:11 saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan as your portion for an inheritance."
Psa 105:12 When they were few in number, of little account, and sojourners in it,
Psa 105:13 wandering from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another people,
Psa 105:14 he allowed no one to oppress them; he rebuked kings on their account,
Psa 105:15 saying, "Touch not my anointed ones, do my prophets no harm!"
Psa 105:16 When he summoned a famine on the land and broke all supply of bread,
Psa 105:17 he had sent a man ahead of them, Joseph, who was sold as a slave.
Psa 105:18 His feet were hurt with fetters; his neck was put in a collar of iron;
Psa 105:19 until what he had said came to pass, the word of the LORD tested him.
Psa 105:20 The king sent and released him; the ruler of the peoples set him free;
Psa 105:21 he made him lord of his house and ruler of all his possessions,
Psa 105:22 to bind his princes at his pleasure and to teach his elders wisdom.
Psa 105:23 Then Israel came to Egypt; Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham.
Psa 105:24 And the LORD made his people very fruitful and made them stronger than their foes.
Psa 105:25 He turned their hearts to hate his people, to deal craftily with his servants.
Psa 105:26 He sent Moses, his servant, and Aaron, whom he had chosen.
Psa 105:27 They performed his signs among them and miracles in the land of Ham.
Psa 105:28 He sent darkness, and made the land dark; they did not rebel against his words.
Psa 105:29 He turned their waters into blood and caused their fish to die.
Psa 105:30 Their land swarmed with frogs, even in the chambers of their kings.
Psa 105:31 He spoke, and there came swarms of flies, and gnats throughout their country.
Psa 105:32 He gave them hail for rain, and fiery lightning bolts through their land.
Psa 105:33 He struck down their vines and fig trees, and shattered the trees of their country.
Psa 105:34 He spoke, and the locusts came, young locusts without number,
Psa 105:35 which devoured all the vegetation in their land and ate up the fruit of their ground.
Psa 105:36 He struck down all the firstborn in their land, the firstfruits of all their strength.
Psa 105:37 Then he brought out Israel with silver and gold, and there was none among his tribes who stumbled.
Psa 105:38 Egypt was glad when they departed, for dread of them had fallen upon it.
Psa 105:39 He spread a cloud for a covering, and fire to give light by night.
Psa 105:40 They asked, and he brought quail, and gave them bread from heaven in abundance.
Psa 105:41 He opened the rock, and water gushed out; it flowed through the desert like a river.
Psa 105:42 For he remembered his holy promise, and Abraham, his servant.
Psa 105:43 So he brought his people out with joy, his chosen ones with singing.
Psa 105:44 And he gave them the lands of the nations, and they took possession of the fruit of the peoples' toil,
Psa 105:45 that they might keep his statutes and observe his laws. Praise the LORD!
Psa 106:1 Praise the LORD! Oh give thanks to the LORD, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever!
Psa 106:2 Who can utter the mighty deeds of the LORD, or declare all his praise?
Psa 106:3 Blessed are they who observe justice, who do righteousness at all times!
Psa 106:4 Remember me, O LORD, when you show favor to your people; help me when you save them,
Psa 106:5 that I may look upon the prosperity of your chosen ones, that I may rejoice in the gladness of your
nation, that I may glory with your inheritance.
Psa 106:6 Both we and our fathers have sinned; we have committed iniquity; we have done wickedness.
Psa 106:7 Our fathers, when they were in Egypt, did not consider your wondrous works; they did not rememberthe abundance of your steadfast love, but rebelled by the Sea, at the Red Sea.
Psa 106:8 Yet he saved them for his name's sake, that he might make known his mighty power.
Psa 106:9 He rebuked the Red Sea, and it became dry, and he led them through the deep as through a desert.
Psa 106:10 So he saved them from the hand of the foe and redeemed them from the power of the enemy.
Psa 106:11 And the waters covered their adversaries; not one of them was left.
Psa 106:12 Then they believed his words; they sang his praise.
Psa 106:13 But they soon forgot his works; they did not wait for his counsel.
Psa 106:14 But they had a wanton craving in the wilderness, and put God to the test in the desert;
Psa 106:15 he gave them what they asked, but sent a wasting disease among them.
Psa 106:16 When men in the camp were jealous of Moses and Aaron, the holy one of the LORD,
Psa 106:17 the earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram.
Psa 106:18 Fire also broke out in their company; the flame burned up the wicked.
Psa 106:19 They made a calf in Horeb and worshiped a metal image.
Psa 106:20 They exchanged the glory of God for the image of an ox that eats grass.
Psa 106:21 They forgot God, their Savior, who had done great things in Egypt,
Psa 106:22 wondrous works in the land of Ham, and awesome deeds by the Red Sea.
Psa 106:23 Therefore he said he would destroy them- had not Moses, his chosen one, stood in the breach
before him, to turn away his wrath from destroying them.
Psa 106:24 Then they despised the pleasant land, having no faith in his promise.
Psa 106:25 They murmured in their tents, and did not obey the voice of the LORD.
Psa 106:26 Therefore he raised his hand and swore to them that he would make them fall in the wilderness,
Psa 106:27 and would make their offspring fall among the nations, scattering them among the lands.
Psa 106:28 Then they yoked themselves to the Baal of Peor, and ate sacrifices offered to the dead;
Psa 106:29 they provoked the LORD to anger with their deeds, and a plague broke out among them.
Psa 106:30 Then Phinehas stood up and intervened, and the plague was stayed.
Psa 106:31 And that was counted to him as righteousness from generation to generation forever.
Psa 106:32 They angered him at the waters of Meribah, and it went ill with Moses on their account,
Psa 106:33 for they made his spirit bitter, and he spoke rashly with his lips.
Psa 106:34 They did not destroy the peoples, as the LORD commanded them,
Psa 106:35 but they mixed with the nations and learned to do as they did.
Psa 106:36 They served their idols, which became a snare to them.
Psa 106:37 They sacrificed their sons and their daughters to the demons;
Psa 106:38 they poured out innocent blood, the blood of their sons and daughters, whom they sacrificed to the
idols of Canaan, and the land was polluted with blood.
Psa 106:39 Thus they became unclean by their acts, and played the whore in their deeds.
Psa 106:40 Then the anger of the LORD was kindled against his people, and he abhorred his heritage;
Psa 106:41 he gave them into the hand of the nations, so that those who hated them ruled over them.
Psa 106:42 Their enemies oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their power.
Psa 106:43 Many times he delivered them, but they were rebellious in their purposes and were brought low
through their iniquity.
Psa 106:44 Nevertheless, he looked upon their distress, when he heard their cry.
Psa 106:45 For their sake he remembered his covenant, and relented according to the abundance of his
steadfast love.
Psa 106:46 He caused them to be pitied by all those who held them captive.
Psa 106:47 Save us, O LORD our God, and gather us from among the nations, that we may give thanks to your
holy name and glory in your praise.
Psa 106:48 Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting! And let all the people say,
"Amen!" Praise the LORD! BOOK FIVE
Psa 107:1 Oh give thanks to the LORD, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever!
Psa 107:2 Let the redeemed of the LORD say so, whom he has redeemed from trouble
Psa 107:3 and gathered in from the lands, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south.
Psa 107:4 Some wandered in desert wastes, finding no way to a city to dwell in;
Psa 107:5 hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted within them.
Psa 107:6 Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress.
Psa 107:7 He led them by a straight way till they reached a city to dwell in.
Psa 107:8 Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of men!
Psa 107:9 For he satisfies the longing soul, and the hungry soul he fills with good things.
Psa 107:10 Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, prisoners in affliction and in irons,
Psa 107:11 for they had rebelled against the words of God, and spurned the counsel of the Most High.Psa 107:12 So he bowed their hearts down with hard labor; they fell down, with none to help.
Psa 107:13 Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress.
Psa 107:14 He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and burst their bonds apart.
Psa 107:15 Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of men!
Psa 107:16 For he shatters the doors of bronze and cuts in two the bars of iron.
Psa 107:17 Some were fools through their sinful ways, and because of their iniquities suffered affliction;
Psa 107:18 they loathed any kind of food, and they drew near to the gates of death.
Psa 107:19 Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress.
Psa 107:20 He sent out his word and healed them, and delivered them from their destruction.
Psa 107:21 Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of men!
Psa 107:22 And let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving, and tell of his deeds in songs of joy!
Psa 107:23 Some went down to the sea in ships, doing business on the great waters;
Psa 107:24 they saw the deeds of the LORD, his wondrous works in the deep.
Psa 107:25 For he commanded and raised the stormy wind, which lifted up the waves of the sea.
Psa 107:26 They mounted up to heaven; they went down to the depths; their courage melted away in their evil
plight;
Psa 107:27 they reeled and staggered like drunken men and were at their wits' end.
Psa 107:28 Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress.
Psa 107:29 He made the storm be still, and the waves of the sea were hushed.
Psa 107:30 Then they were glad that the waters were quiet, and he brought them to their desired haven.
Psa 107:31 Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of men!
Psa 107:32 Let them extol him in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders.
Psa 107:33 He turns rivers into a desert, springs of water into thirsty ground,
Psa 107:34 a fruitful land into a salty waste, because of the evil of its inhabitants.
Psa 107:35 He turns a desert into pools of water, a parched land into springs of water.
Psa 107:36 And there he lets the hungry dwell, and they establish a city to live in;
Psa 107:37 they sow fields and plant vineyards and get a fruitful yield.
Psa 107:38 By his blessing they multiply greatly, and he does not let their livestock diminish.
Psa 107:39 When they are diminished and brought low through oppression, evil, and sorrow,
Psa 107:40 he pours contempt on princes and makes them wander in trackless wastes;
Psa 107:41 but he raises up the needy out of affliction and makes their families like flocks.
Psa 107:42 The upright see it and are glad, and all wickedness shuts its mouth.
Psa 107:43 Whoever is wise, let him attend to these things; let them consider the steadfast love of the LORD.
Psa 108:1 A SONG. A PSALM OF DAVID. My heart is steadfast, O God! I will sing and make melody with all my
being!
Psa 108:2 Awake, O harp and lyre! I will awake the dawn!
Psa 108:3 I will give thanks to you, O LORD, among the peoples; I will sing praises to you among the nations.
Psa 108:4 For your steadfast love is great above the heavens; your faithfulness reaches to the clouds.
Psa 108:5 Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let your glory be over all the earth!
Psa 108:6 That your beloved ones may be delivered, give salvation by your right hand and answer me!
Psa 108:7 God has promised in his holiness: "With exultation I will divide up Shechem and portion out the
Valley of Succoth.
Psa 108:8 Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim is my helmet, Judah my scepter.
Psa 108:9 Moab is my washbasin; upon Edom I cast my shoe; over Philistia I shout in triumph."
Psa 108:10 Who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom?
Psa 108:11 Have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go out, O God, with our armies.
Psa 108:12 Oh grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man!
Psa 108:13 With God we shall do valiantly; it is he who will tread down our foes.
Psa 109:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF DAVID. Be not silent, O God of my praise!
Psa 109:2 For wicked and deceitful mouths are opened against me, speaking against me with lying tongues.
Psa 109:3 They encircle me with words of hate, and attack me without cause.
Psa 109:4 In return for my love they accuse me, but I give myself to prayer.
Psa 109:5 So they reward me evil for good, and hatred for my love.
Psa 109:6 Appoint a wicked man against him; let an accuser stand at his right hand.
Psa 109:7 When he is tried, let him come forth guilty; let his prayer be counted as sin!
Psa 109:8 May his days be few; may another take his office!
Psa 109:9 May his children be fatherless and his wife a widow!
Psa 109:10 May his children wander about and beg, seeking food far from the ruins they inhabit!
Psa 109:11 May the creditor seize all that he has; may strangers plunder the fruits of his toil!Psa 109:12 Let there be none to extend kindness to him, nor any to pity his fatherless children!
Psa 109:13 May his posterity be cut off; may his name be blotted out in the second generation!
Psa 109:14 May the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before the LORD, and let not the sin of his mother be
blotted out!
Psa 109:15 Let them be before the LORD continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth!
Psa 109:16 For he did not remember to show kindness, but pursued the poor and needy and the
brokenhearted, to put them to death.
Psa 109:17 He loved to curse; let curses come upon him! He did not delight in blessing; may it be far from him!
Psa 109:18 He clothed himself with cursing as his coat; may it soak into his body like water, like oil into his
bones!
Psa 109:19 May it be like a garment that he wraps around him, like a belt that he puts on every day!
Psa 109:20 May this be the reward of my accusers from the LORD, of those who speak evil against my life!
Psa 109:21 But you, O GOD my Lord, deal on my behalf for your name's sake; because your steadfast love is
good, deliver me!
Psa 109:22 For I am poor and needy, and my heart is stricken within me.
Psa 109:23 I am gone like a shadow at evening; I am shaken off like a locust.
Psa 109:24 My knees are weak through fasting; my body has become gaunt, with no fat.
Psa 109:25 I am an object of scorn to my accusers; when they see me, they wag their heads.
Psa 109:26 Help me, O LORD my God! Save me according to your steadfast love!
Psa 109:27 Let them know that this is your hand; you, O LORD, have done it!
Psa 109:28 Let them curse, but you will bless! They arise and are put to shame, but your servant will be glad!
Psa 109:29 May my accusers be clothed with dishonor; may they be wrapped in their own shame as in a cloak!
Psa 109:30 With my mouth I will give great thanks to the LORD; I will praise him in the midst of the throng.
Psa 109:31 For he stands at the right hand of the needy, to save him from those who condemn his soul to
death.
Psa 110:1 A PSALM OF DAVID. The LORD says to my Lord: "Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies
your footstool."
Psa 110:2 The LORD sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter. Rule in the midst of your enemies!
Psa 110:3 Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power, in holy garments; from the womb
of the morning, the dew of your youth will be yours.
Psa 110:4 The LORD has sworn and will not change his mind, "You are a priest forever after the order of
Melchizedek."
Psa 110:5 The Lord is at your right hand; he will shatter kings on the day of his wrath.
Psa 110:6 He will execute judgment among the nations, filling them with corpses; he will shatter chiefs over the
wide earth.
Psa 110:7 He will drink from the brook by the way; therefore he will lift up his head.
Psa 111:1 Praise the LORD!I will give thanks to the LORD with my whole heart, in the company of the upright,
in the congregation.
Psa 111:2 Great are the works of the LORD, studied by all who delight in them.
Psa 111:3 Full of splendor and majesty is his work, and his righteousness endures forever.
Psa 111:4 He has caused his wondrous works to be remembered; the LORD is gracious and merciful.
Psa 111:5 He provides food for those who fear him; he remembers his covenant forever.
Psa 111:6 He has shown his people the power of his works, in giving them the inheritance of the nations.
Psa 111:7 The works of his hands are faithful and just; all his precepts are trustworthy;
Psa 111:8 they are established forever and ever, to be performed with faithfulness and uprightness.
Psa 111:9 He sent redemption to his people; he has commanded his covenant forever. Holy and awesome is
his name!
Psa 111:10 The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom; all those who practice it have a good
understanding. His praise endures forever!
Psa 112:1 Praise the LORD! Blessed is the man who fears the LORD, who greatly delights in his
commandments!
Psa 112:2 His offspring will be mighty in the land; the generation of the upright will be blessed.
Psa 112:3 Wealth and riches are in his house, and his righteousness endures forever.
Psa 112:4 Light dawns in the darkness for the upright; he is gracious, merciful, and righteous.
Psa 112:5 It is well with the man who deals generously and lends; who conducts his affairs with justice.
Psa 112:6 For the righteous will never be moved; he will be remembered forever.
Psa 112:7 He is not afraid of bad news; his heart is firm, trusting in the LORD.
Psa 112:8 His heart is steady; he will not be afraid, until he looks in triumph on his adversaries.
Psa 112:9 He has distributed freely; he has given to the poor; his righteousness endures forever; his horn isexalted in honor.
Psa 112:10 The wicked man sees it and is angry; he gnashes his teeth and melts away; the desire of the wicked
will perish!
Psa 113:1 Praise the LORD! Praise, O servants of the LORD, praise the name of the LORD!
Psa 113:2 Blessed be the name of the LORD from this time forth and forevermore!
Psa 113:3 From the rising of the sun to its setting, the name of the LORD is to be praised!
Psa 113:4 The LORD is high above all nations, and his glory above the heavens!
Psa 113:5 Who is like the LORD our God, who is seated on high,
Psa 113:6 who looks far down on the heavens and the earth?
Psa 113:7 He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap,
Psa 113:8 to make them sit with princes, with the princes of his people.
Psa 113:9 He gives the barren woman a home, making her the joyous mother of children. Praise the LORD!
Psa 114:1 When Israel went out from Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people of strange language,
Psa 114:2 Judah became his sanctuary, Israel his dominion.
Psa 114:3 The sea looked and fled; Jordan turned back.
Psa 114:4 The mountains skipped like rams, the hills like lambs.
Psa 114:5 What ails you, O sea, that you flee? O Jordan, that you turn back?
Psa 114:6 O mountains, that you skip like rams? O hills, like lambs?
Psa 114:7 Tremble, O earth, at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob,
Psa 114:8 who turns the rock into a pool of water, the flint into a spring of water.
Psa 115:1 Not to us, O LORD, not to us, but to your name give glory, for the sake of your steadfast love and
your faithfulness!
Psa 115:2 Why should the nations say, "Where is their God?"
Psa 115:3 Our God is in the heavens; he does all that he pleases.
Psa 115:4 Their idols are silver and gold, the work of human hands.
Psa 115:5 They have mouths, but do not speak; eyes, but do not see.
Psa 115:6 They have ears, but do not hear; noses, but do not smell.
Psa 115:7 They have hands, but do not feel; feet, but do not walk; and they do not make a sound in their throat.
Psa 115:8 Those who make them become like them; so do all who trust in them.
Psa 115:9 O Israel, trust in the LORD! He is their help and their shield.
Psa 115:10 O house of Aaron, trust in the LORD! He is their help and their shield.
Psa 115:11 You who fear the LORD, trust in the LORD! He is their help and their shield.
Psa 115:12 The LORD has remembered us; he will bless us; he will bless the house of Israel; he will bless the
house of Aaron;
Psa 115:13 he will bless those who fear the LORD, both the small and the great.
Psa 115:14 May the LORD give you increase, you and your children!
Psa 115:15 May you be blessed by the LORD, who made heaven and earth!
Psa 115:16 The heavens are the LORD's heavens, but the earth he has given to the children of man.
Psa 115:17 The dead do not praise the LORD, nor do any who go down into silence.
Psa 115:18 But we will bless the LORD from this time forth and forevermore. Praise the LORD!
Psa 116:1 I love the LORD, because he has heard my voice and my pleas for mercy.
Psa 116:2 Because he inclined his ear to me, therefore I will call on him as long as I live.
Psa 116:3 The snares of death encompassed me; the pangs of Sheol laid hold on me; I suffered distress and
anguish.
Psa 116:4 Then I called on the name of the LORD: "O LORD, I pray, deliver my soul!"
Psa 116:5 Gracious is the LORD, and righteous; our God is merciful.
Psa 116:6 The LORD preserves the simple; when I was brought low, he saved me.
Psa 116:7 Return, O my soul, to your rest; for the LORD has dealt bountifully with you.
Psa 116:8 For you have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling;
Psa 116:9 I will walk before the LORD in the land of the living.
Psa 116:10 I believed, even when I spoke, "I am greatly afflicted";
Psa 116:11 I said in my alarm, "All mankind are liars."
Psa 116:12 What shall I render to the LORD for all his benefits to me?
Psa 116:13 I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on the name of the LORD,
Psa 116:14 I will pay my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people.
Psa 116:15 Precious in the sight of the LORD is the death of his saints.
Psa 116:16 O LORD, I am your servant; I am your servant, the son of your maidservant. You have loosed my
bonds.
Psa 116:17 I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving and call on the name of the LORD.Psa 116:18 I will pay my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people,
Psa 116:19 in the courts of the house of the LORD, in your midst, O Jerusalem. Praise the LORD!
Psa 117:1 Praise the LORD, all nations! Extol him, all peoples!
Psa 117:2 For great is his steadfast love toward us, and the faithfulness of the LORD endures forever. Praise
the LORD!
Psa 118:1 Oh give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever!
Psa 118:2 Let Israel say, "His steadfast love endures forever."
Psa 118:3 Let the house of Aaron say, "His steadfast love endures forever."
Psa 118:4 Let those who fear the LORD say, "His steadfast love endures forever."
Psa 118:5 Out of my distress I called on the LORD; the LORD answered me and set me free.
Psa 118:6 The LORD is on my side; I will not fear. What can man do to me?
Psa 118:7 The LORD is on my side as my helper; I shall look in triumph on those who hate me.
Psa 118:8 It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in man.
Psa 118:9 It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in princes.
Psa 118:10 All nations surrounded me; in the name of the LORD I cut them off!
Psa 118:11 They surrounded me, surrounded me on every side; in the name of the LORD I cut them off!
Psa 118:12 They surrounded me like bees; they went out like a fire among thorns; in the name of the LORD I
cut them off!
Psa 118:13 I was pushed hard, so that I was falling, but the LORD helped me.
Psa 118:14 The LORD is my strength and my song; he has become my salvation.
Psa 118:15 Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous: "The right hand of the LORD does
valiantly,
Psa 118:16 the right hand of the LORD exalts, the right hand of the LORD does valiantly!"
Psa 118:17 I shall not die, but I shall live, and recount the deeds of the LORD.
Psa 118:18 The LORD has disciplined me severely, but he has not given me over to death.
Psa 118:19 Open to me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter through them and give thanks to the
LORD.
Psa 118:20 This is the gate of the LORD; the righteous shall enter through it.
Psa 118:21 I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation.
Psa 118:22 The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone.
Psa 118:23 This is the LORD's doing; it is marvelous in our eyes.
Psa 118:24 This is the day that the LORD has made; let us rejoice and be glad in it.
Psa 118:25 Save us, we pray, O LORD! O LORD, we pray, give us success!
Psa 118:26 Blessed is he who comes in the name of the LORD! We bless you from the house of the LORD.
Psa 118:27 The LORD is God, and he has made his light to shine upon us. Bind the festal sacrifice with cords,
up to the horns of the altar!
Psa 118:28 You are my God, and I will give thanks to you; you are my God; I will extol you.
Psa 118:29 Oh give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever!
Psa 119:1 Blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the LORD!
Psa 119:2 Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek him with their whole heart,
Psa 119:3 who also do no wrong, but walk in his ways!
Psa 119:4 You have commanded your precepts to be kept diligently.
Psa 119:5 Oh that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes!
Psa 119:6 Then I shall not be put to shame, having my eyes fixed on all your commandments.
Psa 119:7 I will praise you with an upright heart, when I learn your righteous rules.
Psa 119:8 I will keep your statutes; do not utterly forsake me!
Psa 119:9 How can a young man keep his way pure? By guarding it according to your word.
Psa 119:10 With my whole heart I seek you; let me not wander from your commandments!
Psa 119:11 I have stored up your word in my heart, that I might not sin against you.
Psa 119:12 Blessed are you, O LORD; teach me your statutes!
Psa 119:13 With my lips I declare all the rules of your mouth.
Psa 119:14 In the way of your testimonies I delight as much as in all riches.
Psa 119:15 I will meditate on your precepts and fix my eyes on your ways.
Psa 119:16 I will delight in your statutes; I will not forget your word.
Psa 119:17 Deal bountifully with your servant, that I may live and keep your word.
Psa 119:18 Open my eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of your law.
Psa 119:19 I am a sojourner on the earth; hide not your commandments from me!
Psa 119:20 My soul is consumed with longing for your rules at all times.
Psa 119:21 You rebuke the insolent, accursed ones, who wander from your commandments.Psa 119:22 Take away from me scorn and contempt, for I have kept your testimonies.
Psa 119:23 Even though princes sit plotting against me, your servant will meditate on your statutes.
Psa 119:24 Your testimonies are my delight; they are my counselors.
Psa 119:25 My soul clings to the dust; give me life according to your word!
Psa 119:26 When I told of my ways, you answered me; teach me your statutes!
Psa 119:27 Make me understand the way of your precepts, and I will meditate on your wondrous works.
Psa 119:28 My soul melts away for sorrow; strengthen me according to your word!
Psa 119:29 Put false ways far from me and graciously teach me your law!
Psa 119:30 I have chosen the way of faithfulness; I set your rules before me.
Psa 119:31 I cling to your testimonies, O LORD; let me not be put to shame!
Psa 119:32 I will run in the way of your commandments when you enlarge my heart!
Psa 119:33 Teach me, O LORD, the way of your statutes; and I will keep it to the end.
Psa 119:34 Give me understanding, that I may keep your law and observe it with my whole heart.
Psa 119:35 Lead me in the path of your commandments, for I delight in it.
Psa 119:36 Incline my heart to your testimonies, and not to selfish gain!
Psa 119:37 Turn my eyes from looking at worthless things; and give me life in your ways.
Psa 119:38 Confirm to your servant your promise, that you may be feared.
Psa 119:39 Turn away the reproach that I dread, for your rules are good.
Psa 119:40 Behold, I long for your precepts; in your righteousness give me life!
Psa 119:41 Let your steadfast love come to me, O LORD, your salvation according to your promise;
Psa 119:42 then shall I have an answer for him who taunts me, for I trust in your word.
Psa 119:43 And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, for my hope is in your rules.
Psa 119:44 I will keep your law continually, forever and ever,
Psa 119:45 and I shall walk in a wide place, for I have sought your precepts.
Psa 119:46 I will also speak of your testimonies before kings and shall not be put to shame,
Psa 119:47 for I find my delight in your commandments, which I love.
Psa 119:48 I will lift up my hands toward your commandments, which I love, and I will meditate on your statutes.
Psa 119:49 Remember your word to your servant, in which you have made me hope.
Psa 119:50 This is my comfort in my affliction, that your promise gives me life.
Psa 119:51 The insolent utterly deride me, but I do not turn away from your law.
Psa 119:52 When I think of your rules from of old, I take comfort, O LORD.
Psa 119:53 Hot indignation seizes me because of the wicked, who forsake your law.
Psa 119:54 Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my sojourning.
Psa 119:55 I remember your name in the night, O LORD, and keep your law.
Psa 119:56 This blessing has fallen to me, that I have kept your precepts.
Psa 119:57 The LORD is my portion; I promise to keep your words.
Psa 119:58 I entreat your favor with all my heart; be gracious to me according to your promise.
Psa 119:59 When I think on my ways, I turn my feet to your testimonies;
Psa 119:60 I hasten and do not delay to keep your commandments.
Psa 119:61 Though the cords of the wicked ensnare me, I do not forget your law.
Psa 119:62 At midnight I rise to praise you, because of your righteous rules.
Psa 119:63 I am a companion of all who fear you, of those who keep your precepts.
Psa 119:64 The earth, O LORD, is full of your steadfast love; teach me your statutes!
Psa 119:65 You have dealt well with your servant, O LORD, according to your word.
Psa 119:66 Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I believe in your commandments.
Psa 119:67 Before I was afflicted I went astray, but now I keep your word.
Psa 119:68 You are good and do good; teach me your statutes.
Psa 119:69 The insolent smear me with lies, but with my whole heart I keep your precepts;
Psa 119:70 their heart is unfeeling like fat, but I delight in your law.
Psa 119:71 It is good for me that I was afflicted, that I might learn your statutes.
Psa 119:72 The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver pieces.
Psa 119:73 Your hands have made and fashioned me; give me understanding that I may learn your
commandments.
Psa 119:74 Those who fear you shall see me and rejoice, because I have hoped in your word.
Psa 119:75 I know, O LORD, that your rules are righteous, and that in faithfulness you have afflicted me.
Psa 119:76 Let your steadfast love comfort me according to your promise to your servant.
Psa 119:77 Let your mercy come to me, that I may live; for your law is my delight.
Psa 119:78 Let the insolent be put to shame, because they have wronged me with falsehood; as for me, I will
meditate on your precepts.Psa 119:79 Let those who fear you turn to me, that they may know your testimonies.
Psa 119:80 May my heart be blameless in your statutes, that I may not be put to shame!
Psa 119:81 My soul longs for your salvation; I hope in your word.
Psa 119:82 My eyes long for your promise; I ask, "When will you comfort me?"
Psa 119:83 For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke, yet I have not forgotten your statutes.
Psa 119:84 How long must your servant endure? When will you judge those who persecute me?
Psa 119:85 The insolent have dug pitfalls for me; they do not live according to your law.
Psa 119:86 All your commandments are sure; they persecute me with falsehood; help me!
Psa 119:87 They have almost made an end of me on earth, but I have not forsaken your precepts.
Psa 119:88 In your steadfast love give me life, that I may keep the testimonies of your mouth.
Psa 119:89 Forever, O LORD, your word is firmly fixed in the heavens.
Psa 119:90 Your faithfulness endures to all generations; you have established the earth, and it stands fast.
Psa 119:91 By your appointment they stand this day, for all things are your servants.
Psa 119:92 If your law had not been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction.
Psa 119:93 I will never forget your precepts, for by them you have given me life.
Psa 119:94 I am yours; save me, for I have sought your precepts.
Psa 119:95 The wicked lie in wait to destroy me, but I consider your testimonies.
Psa 119:96 I have seen a limit to all perfection, but your commandment is exceedingly broad.
Psa 119:97 Oh how I love your law! It is my meditation all the day.
Psa 119:98 Your commandment makes me wiser than my enemies, for it is ever with me.
Psa 119:99 I have more understanding than all my teachers, for your testimonies are my meditation.
Psa 119:100 I understand more than the aged, for I keep your precepts.
Psa 119:101 I hold back my feet from every evil way, in order to keep your word.
Psa 119:102 I do not turn aside from your rules, for you have taught me.
Psa 119:103 How sweet are your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth!
Psa 119:104 Through your precepts I get understanding; therefore I hate every false way.
Psa 119:105 Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.
Psa 119:106 I have sworn an oath and confirmed it, to keep your righteous rules.
Psa 119:107 I am severely afflicted; give me life, O LORD, according to your word!
Psa 119:108 Accept my freewill offerings of praise, O LORD, and teach me your rules.
Psa 119:109 I hold my life in my hand continually, but I do not forget your law.
Psa 119:110 The wicked have laid a snare for me, but I do not stray from your precepts.
Psa 119:111 Your testimonies are my heritage forever, for they are the joy of my heart.
Psa 119:112 I incline my heart to perform your statutes forever, to the end.
Psa 119:113 I hate the double-minded, but I love your law.
Psa 119:114 You are my hiding place and my shield; I hope in your word.
Psa 119:115 Depart from me, you evildoers, that I may keep the commandments of my God.
Psa 119:116 Uphold me according to your promise, that I may live, and let me not be put to shame in my hope!
Psa 119:117 Hold me up, that I may be safe and have regard for your statutes continually!
Psa 119:118 You spurn all who go astray from your statutes, for their cunning is in vain.
Psa 119:119 All the wicked of the earth you discard like dross, therefore I love your testimonies.
Psa 119:120 My flesh trembles for fear of you, and I am afraid of your judgments.
Psa 119:121 I have done what is just and right; do not leave me to my oppressors.
Psa 119:122 Give your servant a pledge of good; let not the insolent oppress me.
Psa 119:123 My eyes long for your salvation and for the fulfillment of your righteous promise.
Psa 119:124 Deal with your servant according to your steadfast love, and teach me your statutes.
Psa 119:125 I am your servant; give me understanding, that I may know your testimonies!
Psa 119:126 It is time for the LORD to act, for your law has been broken.
Psa 119:127 Therefore I love your commandments above gold, above fine gold.
Psa 119:128 Therefore I consider all your precepts to be right; I hate every false way.
Psa 119:129 Your testimonies are wonderful; therefore my soul keeps them.
Psa 119:130 The unfolding of your words gives light; it imparts understanding to the simple.
Psa 119:131 I open my mouth and pant, because I long for your commandments.
Psa 119:132 Turn to me and be gracious to me, as is your way with those who love your name.
Psa 119:133 Keep steady my steps according to your promise, and let no iniquity get dominion over me.
Psa 119:134 Redeem me from man's oppression, that I may keep your precepts.
Psa 119:135 Make your face shine upon your servant, and teach me your statutes.
Psa 119:136 My eyes shed streams of tears, because people do not keep your law.
Psa 119:137 Righteous are you, O LORD, and right are your rules.Psa 119:138 You have appointed your testimonies in righteousness and in all faithfulness.
Psa 119:139 My zeal consumes me, because my foes forget your words.
Psa 119:140 Your promise is well tried, and your servant loves it.
Psa 119:141 I am small and despised, yet I do not forget your precepts.
Psa 119:142 Your righteousness is righteous forever, and your law is true.
Psa 119:143 Trouble and anguish have found me out, but your commandments are my delight.
Psa 119:144 Your testimonies are righteous forever; give me understanding that I may live.
Psa 119:145 With my whole heart I cry; answer me, O LORD! I will keep your statutes.
Psa 119:146 I call to you; save me, that I may observe your testimonies.
Psa 119:147 I rise before dawn and cry for help; I hope in your words.
Psa 119:148 My eyes are awake before the watches of the night, that I may meditate on your promise.
Psa 119:149 Hear my voice according to your steadfast love; O LORD, according to your justice give me life.
Psa 119:150 They draw near who persecute me with evil purpose; they are far from your law.
Psa 119:151 But you are near, O LORD, and all your commandments are true.
Psa 119:152 Long have I known from your testimonies that you have founded them forever.
Psa 119:153 Look on my affliction and deliver me, for I do not forget your law.
Psa 119:154 Plead my cause and redeem me; give me life according to your promise!
Psa 119:155 Salvation is far from the wicked, for they do not seek your statutes.
Psa 119:156 Great is your mercy, O LORD; give me life according to your rules.
Psa 119:157 Many are my persecutors and my adversaries, but I do not swerve from your testimonies.
Psa 119:158 I look at the faithless with disgust, because they do not keep your commands.
Psa 119:159 Consider how I love your precepts! Give me life according to your steadfast love.
Psa 119:160 The sum of your word is truth, and every one of your righteous rules endures forever.
Psa 119:161 Princes persecute me without cause, but my heart stands in awe of your words.
Psa 119:162 I rejoice at your word like one who finds great spoil.
Psa 119:163 I hate and abhor falsehood, but I love your law.
Psa 119:164 Seven times a day I praise you for your righteous rules.
Psa 119:165 Great peace have those who love your law; nothing can make them stumble.
Psa 119:166 I hope for your salvation, O LORD, and I do your commandments.
Psa 119:167 My soul keeps your testimonies; I love them exceedingly.
Psa 119:168 I keep your precepts and testimonies, for all my ways are before you.
Psa 119:169 Let my cry come before you, O LORD; give me understanding according to your word!
Psa 119:170 Let my plea come before you; deliver me according to your word.
Psa 119:171 My lips will pour forth praise, for you teach me your statutes.
Psa 119:172 My tongue will sing of your word, for all your commandments are right.
Psa 119:173 Let your hand be ready to help me, for I have chosen your precepts.
Psa 119:174 I long for your salvation, O LORD, and your law is my delight.
Psa 119:175 Let my soul live and praise you, and let your rules help me.
Psa 119:176 I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek your servant, for I do not forget your commandments.
Psa 120:1 A SONG OF ASCENTS.In my distress I called to the LORD, and he answered me.
Psa 120:2 Deliver me, O LORD, from lying lips, from a deceitful tongue.
Psa 120:3 What shall be given to you, and what more shall be done to you, you deceitful tongue?
Psa 120:4 A warrior's sharp arrows, with glowing coals of the broom tree!
Psa 120:5 Woe to me, that I sojourn in Meshech, that I dwell among the tents of Kedar!
Psa 120:6 Too long have I had my dwelling among those who hate peace.
Psa 120:7 I am for peace, but when I speak, they are for war!
Psa 121:1 A SONG OF ASCENTS.I lift up my eyes to the hills. From where does my help come?
Psa 121:2 My help comes from the LORD, who made heaven and earth.
Psa 121:3 He will not let your foot be moved; he who keeps you will not slumber.
Psa 121:4 Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep.
Psa 121:5 The LORD is your keeper; the LORD is your shade on your right hand.
Psa 121:6 The sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night.
Psa 121:7 The LORD will keep you from all evil; he will keep your life.
Psa 121:8 The LORD will keep your going out and your coming in from this time forth and forevermore.
Psa 122:1 A SONG OF ASCENTS. OF DAVID.I was glad when they said to me, "Let us go to the house of the
LORD!"
Psa 122:2 Our feet have been standing within your gates, O Jerusalem!
Psa 122:3 Jerusalem- built as a city that is bound firmly together,
Psa 122:4 to which the tribes go up, the tribes of the LORD, as was decreed for Israel, to give thanks to thename of the LORD.
Psa 122:5 There thrones for judgment were set, the thrones of the house of David.
Psa 122:6 Pray for the peace of Jerusalem! "May they be secure who love you!
Psa 122:7 Peace be within your walls and security within your towers!"
Psa 122:8 For my brothers and companions' sake I will say, "Peace be within you!"
Psa 122:9 For the sake of the house of the LORD our God, I will seek your good.
Psa 123:1 A SONG OF ASCENTS.To you I lift up my eyes, O you who are enthroned in the heavens!
Psa 123:2 Behold, as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their master, as the eyes of a maidservant to the
hand of her mistress, so our eyes look to the LORD our God, till he has mercy upon us.
Psa 123:3 Have mercy upon us, O LORD, have mercy upon us, for we have had more than enough of
contempt.
Psa 123:4 Our soul has had more than enough of the scorn of those who are at ease, of the contempt of the
proud.
Psa 124:1 A SONG OF ASCENTS. OF DAVID. If it had not been the LORD who was on our side- let Israel now
sayPsa 124:2 if it had not been the LORD who was on our side when people rose up against us,
Psa 124:3 then they would have swallowed us up alive, when their anger was kindled against us;
Psa 124:4 then the flood would have swept us away, the torrent would have gone over us;
Psa 124:5 then over us would have gone the raging waters.
Psa 124:6 Blessed be the LORD, who has not given us as prey to their teeth!
Psa 124:7 We have escaped like a bird from the snare of the fowlers; the snare is broken, and we have
escaped!
Psa 124:8 Our help is in the name of the LORD, who made heaven and earth.
Psa 125:1 A SONG OF ASCENTS.Those who trust in the LORD are like Mount Zion, which cannot be moved,
but abides forever.
Psa 125:2 As the mountains surround Jerusalem, so the LORD surrounds his people, from this time forth and
forevermore.
Psa 125:3 For the scepter of wickedness shall not rest on the land allotted to the righteous, lest the righteous
stretch out their hands to do wrong.
Psa 125:4 Do good, O LORD, to those who are good, and to those who are upright in their hearts!
Psa 125:5 But those who turn aside to their crooked ways the LORD will lead away with evildoers! Peace be
upon Israel!
Psa 126:1 A SONG OF ASCENTS.When the LORD restored the fortunes of Zion, we were like those who
dream.
Psa 126:2 Then our mouth was filled with laughter, and our tongue with shouts of joy; then they said among the
nations, "The LORD has done great things for them."
Psa 126:3 The LORD has done great things for us; we are glad.
Psa 126:4 Restore our fortunes, O LORD, like streams in the Negeb!
Psa 126:5 Those who sow in tears shall reap with shouts of joy!
Psa 126:6 He who goes out weeping, bearing the seed for sowing, shall come home with shouts of joy, bringing
his sheaves with him.
Psa 127:1 A SONG OF ASCENTS. OF SOLOMON. Unless the LORD builds the house, those who build it labor
in vain. Unless the LORD watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in vain.
Psa 127:2 It is in vain that you rise up early and go late to rest, eating the bread of anxious toil; for he gives to
his beloved sleep.
Psa 127:3 Behold, children are a heritage from the LORD, the fruit of the womb a reward.
Psa 127:4 Like arrows in the hand of a warrior are the children of one's youth.
Psa 127:5 Blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them! He shall not be put to shame when he speaks with
his enemies in the gate.
Psa 128:1 A SONG OF ASCENTS. Blessed is everyone who fears the LORD, who walks in his ways!
Psa 128:2 You shall eat the fruit of the labor of your hands; you shall be blessed, and it shall be well with you.
Psa 128:3 Your wife will be like a fruitful vine within your house; your children will be like olive shoots around
your table.
Psa 128:4 Behold, thus shall the man be blessed who fears the LORD.
Psa 128:5 The LORD bless you from Zion! May you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life!
Psa 128:6 May you see your children's children! Peace be upon Israel!
Psa 129:1 A SONG OF ASCENTS. "Greatly have they afflicted me from my youth"- let Israel now sayPsa 129:2 "Greatly have they afflicted me from my youth, yet they have not prevailed against me.
Psa 129:3 The plowers plowed upon my back; they made long their furrows."Psa 129:4 The LORD is righteous; he has cut the cords of the wicked.
Psa 129:5 May all who hate Zion be put to shame and turned backward!
Psa 129:6 Let them be like the grass on the housetops, which withers before it grows up,
Psa 129:7 with which the reaper does not fill his hand nor the binder of sheaves his arms,
Psa 129:8 nor do those who pass by say, "The blessing of the LORD be upon you! We bless you in the name of
the LORD!"
Psa 130:1 A SONG OF ASCENTS.Out of the depths I cry to you, O LORD!
Psa 130:2 O Lord, hear my voice! Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my pleas for mercy!
Psa 130:3 If you, O LORD, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand?
Psa 130:4 But with you there is forgiveness, that you may be feared.
Psa 130:5 I wait for the LORD, my soul waits, and in his word I hope;
Psa 130:6 my soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning, more than watchmen for the
morning.
Psa 130:7 O Israel, hope in the LORD! For with the LORD there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful
redemption.
Psa 130:8 And he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities.
Psa 131:1 A SONG OF ASCENTS. OF DAVID.O LORD, my heart is not lifted up; my eyes are not raised too
high; I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me.
Psa 131:2 But I have calmed and quieted my soul, like a weaned child with its mother; like a weaned child is my
soul within me.
Psa 131:3 O Israel, hope in the LORD from this time forth and forevermore.
Psa 132:1 A SONG OF ASCENTS.Remember, O LORD, in David's favor, all the hardships he endured,
Psa 132:2 how he swore to the LORD and vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob,
Psa 132:3 "I will not enter my house or get into my bed,
Psa 132:4 I will not give sleep to my eyes or slumber to my eyelids,
Psa 132:5 until I find a place for the LORD, a dwelling place for the Mighty One of Jacob."
Psa 132:6 Behold, we heard of it in Ephrathah; we found it in the fields of Jaar.
Psa 132:7 "Let us go to his dwelling place; let us worship at his footstool!"
Psa 132:8 Arise, O LORD, and go to your resting place, you and the ark of your might.
Psa 132:9 Let your priests be clothed with righteousness, and let your saints shout for joy.
Psa 132:10 For the sake of your servant David, do not turn away the face of your anointed one.
Psa 132:11 The LORD swore to David a sure oath from which he will not turn back: "One of the sons of your
body I will set on your throne.
Psa 132:12 If your sons keep my covenant and my testimonies that I shall teach them, their sons also forever
shall sit on your throne."
Psa 132:13 For the LORD has chosen Zion; he has desired it for his dwelling place:
Psa 132:14 "This is my resting place forever; here I will dwell, for I have desired it.
Psa 132:15 I will abundantly bless her provisions; I will satisfy her poor with bread.
Psa 132:16 Her priests I will clothe with salvation, and her saints will shout for joy.
Psa 132:17 There I will make a horn to sprout for David; I have prepared a lamp for my anointed.
Psa 132:18 His enemies I will clothe with shame, but on him his crown will shine."
Psa 133:1 A SONG OF ASCENTS. OF DAVID.Behold, how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity!
Psa 133:2 It is like the precious oil on the head, running down on the beard, on the beard of Aaron, running
down on the collar of his robes!
Psa 133:3 It is like the dew of Hermon, which falls on the mountains of Zion! For there the LORD has
commanded the blessing, life forevermore.
Psa 134:1 A SONG OF ASCENTS.Come, bless the LORD, all you servants of the LORD, who stand by night in
the house of the LORD!
Psa 134:2 Lift up your hands to the holy place and bless the LORD!
Psa 134:3 May the LORD bless you from Zion, he who made heaven and earth!
Psa 135:1 Praise the LORD!Praise the name of the LORD, give praise, O servants of the LORD,
Psa 135:2 who stand in the house of the LORD, in the courts of the house of our God!
Psa 135:3 Praise the LORD, for the LORD is good; sing to his name, for it is pleasant!
Psa 135:4 For the LORD has chosen Jacob for himself, Israel as his own possession.
Psa 135:5 For I know that the LORD is great, and that our Lord is above all gods.
Psa 135:6 Whatever the LORD pleases, he does, in heaven and on earth, in the seas and all deeps.
Psa 135:7 He it is who makes the clouds rise at the end of the earth, who makes lightnings for the rain and
brings forth the wind from his storehouses.
Psa 135:8 He it was who struck down the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and of beast;Psa 135:9 who in your midst, O Egypt, sent signs and wonders against Pharaoh and all his servants;
Psa 135:10 who struck down many nations and killed mighty kings,
Psa 135:11 Sihon, king of the Amorites, and Og, king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan,
Psa 135:12 and gave their land as a heritage, a heritage to his people Israel.
Psa 135:13 Your name, O LORD, endures forever, your renown, O LORD, throughout all ages.
Psa 135:14 For the LORD will vindicate his people and have compassion on his servants.
Psa 135:15 The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of human hands.
Psa 135:16 They have mouths, but do not speak; they have eyes, but do not see;
Psa 135:17 they have ears, but do not hear, nor is there any breath in their mouths.
Psa 135:18 Those who make them become like them, so do all who trust in them!
Psa 135:19 O house of Israel, bless the LORD! O house of Aaron, bless the LORD!
Psa 135:20 O house of Levi, bless the LORD! You who fear the LORD, bless the LORD!
Psa 135:21 Blessed be the LORD from Zion, he who dwells in Jerusalem! Praise the LORD!
Psa 136:1 Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever.
Psa 136:2 Give thanks to the God of gods, for his steadfast love endures forever.
Psa 136:3 Give thanks to the Lord of lords, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:4 to him who alone does great wonders, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:5 to him who by understanding made the heavens, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:6 to him who spread out the earth above the waters, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:7 to him who made the great lights, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:8 the sun to rule over the day, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:9 the moon and stars to rule over the night, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:10 to him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:11 and brought Israel out from among them, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:12 with a strong hand and an outstretched arm, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:13 to him who divided the Red Sea in two, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:14 and made Israel pass through the midst of it, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:15 but overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:16 to him who led his people through the wilderness, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:17 to him who struck down great kings, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:18 and killed mighty kings, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:19 Sihon, king of the Amorites, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:20 and Og, king of Bashan, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:21 and gave their land as a heritage, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:22 a heritage to Israel his servant, for his steadfast love endures forever.
Psa 136:23 It is he who remembered us in our low estate, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:24 and rescued us from our foes, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psa 136:25 he who gives food to all flesh, for his steadfast love endures forever.
Psa 136:26 Give thanks to the God of heaven, for his steadfast love endures forever.
Psa 137:1 By the waters of Babylon,there we sat down and wept, when we remembered Zion.
Psa 137:2 On the willows there we hung up our lyres.
Psa 137:3 For there our captors required of us songs, and our tormentors, mirth, saying, "Sing us one of the
songs of Zion!"
Psa 137:4 How shall we sing the LORD's song in a foreign land?
Psa 137:5 If I forget you, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget its skill!
Psa 137:6 Let my tongue stick to the roof of my mouth, if I do not remember you, if I do not set Jerusalem above
my highest joy!
Psa 137:7 Remember, O LORD, against the Edomites the day of Jerusalem, how they said, "Lay it bare, lay it
bare, down to its foundations!"
Psa 137:8 O daughter of Babylon, doomed to be destroyed, blessed shall he be who repays you with what you
have done to us!
Psa 137:9 Blessed shall he be who takes your little ones and dashes them against the rock!
Psa 138:1 OF DAVID. I give you thanks, O LORD, with my whole heart; before the gods I sing your praise;
Psa 138:2 I bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name for your steadfast love and your
faithfulness, for you have exalted above all things your name and your word.
Psa 138:3 On the day I called, you answered me; my strength of soul you increased.
Psa 138:4 All the kings of the earth shall give you thanks, O LORD, for they have heard the words of your
mouth,
Psa 138:5 and they shall sing of the ways of the LORD, for great is the glory of the LORD.Psa 138:6 For though the LORD is high, he regards the lowly, but the haughty he knows from afar.
Psa 138:7 Though I walk in the midst of trouble, you preserve my life; you stretch out your hand against the
wrath of my enemies, and your right hand delivers me.
Psa 138:8 The LORD will fulfill his purpose for me; your steadfast love, O LORD, endures forever. Do not
forsake the work of your hands.
Psa 139:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF DAVID. O LORD, you have searched me and known me!
Psa 139:2 You know when I sit down and when I rise up; you discern my thoughts from afar.
Psa 139:3 You search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways.
Psa 139:4 Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O LORD, you know it altogether.
Psa 139:5 You hem me in, behind and before, and lay your hand upon me.
Psa 139:6 Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high; I cannot attain it.
Psa 139:7 Where shall I go from your Spirit? Or where shall I flee from your presence?
Psa 139:8 If I ascend to heaven, you are there! If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there!
Psa 139:9 If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea,
Psa 139:10 even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me.
Psa 139:11 If I say, "Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night,"
Psa 139:12 even the darkness is not dark to you; the night is bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you.
Psa 139:13 For you formed my inward parts; you knitted me together in my mother's womb.
Psa 139:14 I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works; my soul knows it
very well.
Psa 139:15 My frame was not hidden from you, when I was being made in secret, intricately woven in the
depths of the earth.
Psa 139:16 Your eyes saw my unformed substance; in your book were written, every one of them, the days that
were formed for me, when as yet there were none of them.
Psa 139:17 How precious to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast is the sum of them!
Psa 139:18 If I would count them, they are more than the sand. I awake, and I am still with you.
Psa 139:19 Oh that you would slay the wicked, O God! O men of blood, depart from me!
Psa 139:20 They speak against you with malicious intent; your enemies take your name in vain!
Psa 139:21 Do I not hate those who hate you, O LORD? And do I not loathe those who rise up against you?
Psa 139:22 I hate them with complete hatred; I count them my enemies.
Psa 139:23 Search me, O God, and know my heart! Try me and know my thoughts!
Psa 139:24 And see if there be any grievous way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting!
Psa 140:1 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF DAVID. Deliver me, O LORD, from evil men; preserve me
from violent men,
Psa 140:2 who plan evil things in their heart and stir up wars continually.
Psa 140:3 They make their tongue sharp as a serpent's, and under their lips is the venom of asps. Selah
Psa 140:4 Guard me, O LORD, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from violent men, who have planned
to trip up my feet.
Psa 140:5 The arrogant have hidden a trap for me, and with cords they have spread a net; beside the way they
have set snares for me. Selah
Psa 140:6 I say to the LORD, You are my God; give ear to the voice of my pleas for mercy, O LORD!
Psa 140:7 O LORD, my Lord, the strength of my salvation, you have covered my head in the day of battle.
Psa 140:8 Grant not, O LORD, the desires of the wicked; do not further their evil plot or they will be exalted!
Selah
Psa 140:9 As for the head of those who surround me, let the mischief of their lips overwhelm them!
Psa 140:10 Let burning coals fall upon them! Let them be cast into fire, into miry pits, no more to rise!
Psa 140:11 Let not the slanderer be established in the land; let evil hunt down the violent man speedily!
Psa 140:12 I know that the LORD will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and will execute justice for the needy.
Psa 140:13 Surely the righteous shall give thanks to your name; the upright shall dwell in your presence.
Psa 141:1 A PSALM OF DAVID.O LORD, I call upon you; hasten to me! Give ear to my voice when I call to you!
Psa 141:2 Let my prayer be counted as incense before you, and the lifting up of my hands as the evening
sacrifice!
Psa 141:3 Set a guard, O LORD, over my mouth; keep watch over the door of my lips!
Psa 141:4 Do not let my heart incline to any evil, to busy myself with wicked deeds in company with men who
work iniquity, and let me not eat of their delicacies!
Psa 141:5 Let a righteous man strike me- it is a kindness; let him rebuke me- it is oil for my head; let my head
not refuse it. Yet my prayer is continually against their evil deeds.
Psa 141:6 When their judges are thrown over the cliff, then they shall hear my words, for they are pleasant.
Psa 141:7 As when one plows and breaks up the earth, so shall our bones be scattered at the mouth of Sheol.Psa 141:8 But my eyes are toward you, O GOD, my Lord; in you I seek refuge; leave me not defenseless!
Psa 141:9 Keep me from the trap that they have laid for me and from the snares of evildoers!
Psa 141:10 Let the wicked fall into their own nets, while I pass by safely.
Psa 142:1 A MASKIL OF DAVID, WHEN HE WAS IN THE CAVE. A PRAYER. With my voice I cry out to the
LORD; with my voice I plead for mercy to the LORD.
Psa 142:2 I pour out my complaint before him; I tell my trouble before him.
Psa 142:3 When my spirit faints within me, you know my way! In the path where I walk they have hidden a trap
for me.
Psa 142:4 Look to the right and see: there is none who takes notice of me; no refuge remains to me; no one
cares for my soul.
Psa 142:5 I cry to you, O LORD; I say, "You are my refuge, my portion in the land of the living."
Psa 142:6 Attend to my cry, for I am brought very low! Deliver me from my persecutors, for they are too strong
for me!
Psa 142:7 Bring me out of prison, that I may give thanks to your name! The righteous will surround me, for you
will deal bountifully with me.
Psa 143:1 A PSALM OF DAVID.Hear my prayer, O LORD; give ear to my pleas for mercy! In your faithfulness
answer me, in your righteousness!
Psa 143:2 Enter not into judgment with your servant, for no one living is righteous before you.
Psa 143:3 For the enemy has pursued my soul; he has crushed my life to the ground; he has made me sit in
darkness like those long dead.
Psa 143:4 Therefore my spirit faints within me; my heart within me is appalled.
Psa 143:5 I remember the days of old; I meditate on all that you have done; I ponder the work of your hands.
Psa 143:6 I stretch out my hands to you; my soul thirsts for you like a parched land. Selah
Psa 143:7 Answer me quickly, O LORD! My spirit fails! Hide not your face from me, lest I be like those who go
down to the pit.
Psa 143:8 Let me hear in the morning of your steadfast love, for in you I trust. Make me know the way I should
go, for to you I lift up my soul.
Psa 143:9 Deliver me from my enemies, O LORD! I have fled to you for refuge!
Psa 143:10 Teach me to do your will, for you are my God! Let your good Spirit lead me on level ground!
Psa 143:11 For your name's sake, O LORD, preserve my life! In your righteousness bring my soul out of
trouble!
Psa 143:12 And in your steadfast love you will cut off my enemies, and you will destroy all the adversaries of my
soul, for I am your servant.
Psa 144:1 OF DAVID.Blessed be the LORD, my rock, who trains my hands for war, and my fingers for battle;
Psa 144:2 he is my steadfast love and my fortress, my stronghold and my deliverer, my shield and he in whom I
take refuge, who subdues peoples under me.
Psa 144:3 O LORD, what is man that you regard him, or the son of man that you think of him?
Psa 144:4 Man is like a breath; his days are like a passing shadow.
Psa 144:5 Bow your heavens, O LORD, and come down! Touch the mountains so that they smoke!
Psa 144:6 Flash forth the lightning and scatter them; send out your arrows and rout them!
Psa 144:7 Stretch out your hand from on high; rescue me and deliver me from the many waters, from the hand
of foreigners,
Psa 144:8 whose mouths speak lies and whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.
Psa 144:9 I will sing a new song to you, O God; upon a ten-stringed harp I will play to you,
Psa 144:10 who gives victory to kings, who rescues David his servant from the cruel sword.
Psa 144:11 Rescue me and deliver me from the hand of foreigners, whose mouths speak lies and whose right
hand is a right hand of falsehood.
Psa 144:12 May our sons in their youth be like plants full grown, our daughters like corner pillars cut for the
structure of a palace;
Psa 144:13 may our granaries be full, providing all kinds of produce; may our sheep bring forth thousands and
ten thousands in our fields;
Psa 144:14 may our cattle be heavy with young, suffering no mishap or failure in bearing; may there be no cry
of distress in our streets!
Psa 144:15 Blessed are the people to whom such blessings fall! Blessed are the people whose God is the
LORD!
Psa 145:1 A SONG OF PRAISE. OF DAVID. I will extol you, my God and King, and bless your name forever
and ever.
Psa 145:2 Every day I will bless you and praise your name forever and ever.
Psa 145:3 Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable.Psa 145:4 One generation shall commend your works to another, and shall declare your mighty acts.
Psa 145:5 On the glorious splendor of your majesty, and on your wondrous works, I will meditate.
Psa 145:6 They shall speak of the might of your awesome deeds, and I will declare your greatness.
Psa 145:7 They shall pour forth the fame of your abundant goodness and shall sing aloud of your
righteousness.
Psa 145:8 The LORD is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love.
Psa 145:9 The LORD is good to all, and his mercy is over all that he has made.
Psa 145:10 All your works shall give thanks to you, O LORD, and all your saints shall bless you!
Psa 145:11 They shall speak of the glory of your kingdom and tell of your power,
Psa 145:12 to make known to the children of man your mighty deeds, and the glorious splendor of your
kingdom.
Psa 145:13 Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and your dominion endures throughout all generations.
[The LORD is faithful in all his words and kind in all his works.]
Psa 145:14 The LORD upholds all who are falling and raises up all who are bowed down.
Psa 145:15 The eyes of all look to you, and you give them their food in due season.
Psa 145:16 You open your hand; you satisfy the desire of every living thing.
Psa 145:17 The LORD is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his works.
Psa 145:18 The LORD is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth.
Psa 145:19 He fulfills the desire of those who fear him; he also hears their cry and saves them.
Psa 145:20 The LORD preserves all who love him, but all the wicked he will destroy.
Psa 145:21 My mouth will speak the praise of the LORD, and let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever.
Psa 146:1 Praise the LORD!Praise the LORD, O my soul!
Psa 146:2 I will praise the LORD as long as I live; I will sing praises to my God while I have my being.
Psa 146:3 Put not your trust in princes, in a son of man, in whom there is no salvation.
Psa 146:4 When his breath departs he returns to the earth; on that very day his plans perish.
Psa 146:5 Blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the LORD his God,
Psa 146:6 who made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, who keeps faith forever;
Psa 146:7 who executes justice for the oppressed, who gives food to the hungry. The LORD sets the prisoners
free;
Psa 146:8 the LORD opens the eyes of the blind. The LORD lifts up those who are bowed down; the LORD
loves the righteous.
Psa 146:9 The LORD watches over the sojourners; he upholds the widow and the fatherless, but the way of the
wicked he brings to ruin.
Psa 146:10 The LORD will reign forever, your God, O Zion, to all generations. Praise the LORD!
Psa 147:1 Praise the LORD!For it is good to sing praises to our God; for it is pleasant, and a song of praise is
fitting.
Psa 147:2 The LORD builds up Jerusalem; he gathers the outcasts of Israel.
Psa 147:3 He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds.
Psa 147:4 He determines the number of the stars; he gives to all of them their names.
Psa 147:5 Great is our Lord, and abundant in power; his understanding is beyond measure.
Psa 147:6 The LORD lifts up the humble; he casts the wicked to the ground.
Psa 147:7 Sing to the LORD with thanksgiving; make melody to our God on the lyre!
Psa 147:8 He covers the heavens with clouds; he prepares rain for the earth; he makes grass grow on the hills.
Psa 147:9 He gives to the beasts their food, and to the young ravens that cry.
Psa 147:10 His delight is not in the strength of the horse, nor his pleasure in the legs of a man,
Psa 147:11 but the LORD takes pleasure in those who fear him, in those who hope in his steadfast love.
Psa 147:12 Praise the LORD, O Jerusalem! Praise your God, O Zion!
Psa 147:13 For he strengthens the bars of your gates; he blesses your children within you.
Psa 147:14 He makes peace in your borders; he fills you with the finest of the wheat.
Psa 147:15 He sends out his command to the earth; his word runs swiftly.
Psa 147:16 He gives snow like wool; he scatters hoarfrost like ashes.
Psa 147:17 He hurls down his crystals of ice like crumbs; who can stand before his cold?
Psa 147:18 He sends out his word, and melts them; he makes his wind blow and the waters flow.
Psa 147:19 He declares his word to Jacob, his statutes and rules to Israel.
Psa 147:20 He has not dealt thus with any other nation; they do not know his rules. Praise the LORD!
Psa 148:1 Praise the LORD!Praise the LORD from the heavens; praise him in the heights!
Psa 148:2 Praise him, all his angels; praise him, all his hosts!
Psa 148:3 Praise him, sun and moon, praise him, all you shining stars!
Psa 148:4 Praise him, you highest heavens, and you waters above the heavens!Psa 148:5 Let them praise the name of the LORD! For he commanded and they were created.
Psa 148:6 And he established them forever and ever; he gave a decree, and it shall not pass away.
Psa 148:7 Praise the LORD from the earth, you great sea creatures and all deeps,
Psa 148:8 fire and hail, snow and mist, stormy wind fulfilling his word!
Psa 148:9 Mountains and all hills, fruit trees and all cedars!
Psa 148:10 Beasts and all livestock, creeping things and flying birds!
Psa 148:11 Kings of the earth and all peoples, princes and all rulers of the earth!
Psa 148:12 Young men and maidens together, old men and children!
Psa 148:13 Let them praise the name of the LORD, for his name alone is exalted; his majesty is above earth
and heaven.
Psa 148:14 He has raised up a horn for his people, praise for all his saints, for the people of Israel who are near
to him. Praise the LORD!
Psa 149:1 Praise the LORD!Sing to the LORD a new song, his praise in the assembly of the godly!
Psa 149:2 Let Israel be glad in his Maker; let the children of Zion rejoice in their King!
Psa 149:3 Let them praise his name with dancing, making melody to him with tambourine and lyre!
Psa 149:4 For the LORD takes pleasure in his people; he adorns the humble with salvation.
Psa 149:5 Let the godly exult in glory; let them sing for joy on their beds.
Psa 149:6 Let the high praises of God be in their throats and two-edged swords in their hands,
Psa 149:7 to execute vengeance on the nations and punishments on the peoples,
Psa 149:8 to bind their kings with chains and their nobles with fetters of iron,
Psa 149:9 to execute on them the judgment written! This is honor for all his godly ones. Praise the LORD!
Psa 150:1 Praise the LORD!Praise God in his sanctuary; praise him in his mighty heavens!
Psa 150:2 Praise him for his mighty deeds; praise him according to his excellent greatness!
Psa 150:3 Praise him with trumpet sound; praise him with lute and harp!
Psa 150:4 Praise him with tambourine and dance; praise him with strings and pipe!
Psa 150:5 Praise him with sounding cymbals; praise him with loud clashing cymbals!
Psa 150:6 Let everything that has breath praise the LORD! Praise the LORD!
Pro 1:1 The proverbs of Solomon, son of David, king of Israel:
Pro 1:2 To know wisdom and instruction, to understand words of insight,
Pro 1:3 to receive instruction in wise dealing, in righteousness, justice, and equity;
Pro 1:4 to give prudence to the simple, knowledge and discretion to the youthPro 1:5 Let the wise hear and increase in learning, and the one who understands obtain guidance,
Pro 1:6 to understand a proverb and a saying, the words of the wise and their riddles.
Pro 1:7 The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge; fools despise wisdom and instruction.
Pro 1:8 Hear, my son, your father's instruction, and forsake not your mother's teaching,
Pro 1:9 for they are a graceful garland for your head and pendants for your neck.
Pro 1:10 My son, if sinners entice you, do not consent.
Pro 1:11 If they say, "Come with us, let us lie in wait for blood; let us ambush the innocent without reason;
Pro 1:12 like Sheol let us swallow them alive, and whole, like those who go down to the pit;
Pro 1:13 we shall find all precious goods, we shall fill our houses with plunder;
Pro 1:14 throw in your lot among us; we will all have one purse"-
Pro 1:15 my son, do not walk in the way with them; hold back your foot from their paths,
Pro 1:16 for their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed blood.
Pro 1:17 For in vain is a net spread in the sight of any bird,
Pro 1:18 but these men lie in wait for their own blood; they set an ambush for their own lives.
Pro 1:19 Such are the ways of everyone who is greedy for unjust gain; it takes away the life of its possessors.
Pro 1:20 Wisdom cries aloud in the street, in the markets she raises her voice;
Pro 1:21 at the head of the noisy streets she cries out; at the entrance of the city gates she speaks:
Pro 1:22 "How long, O simple ones, will you love being simple? How long will scoffers delight in their scoffing
and fools hate knowledge?
Pro 1:23 If you turn at my reproof, behold, I will pour out my spirit to you; I will make my words known to you.
Pro 1:24 Because I have called and you refused to listen, have stretched out my hand and no one has heeded,
Pro 1:25 because you have ignored all my counsel and would have none of my reproof,
Pro 1:26 I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when terror strikes you,
Pro 1:27 when terror strikes you like a storm and your calamity comes like a whirlwind, when distress and
anguish come upon you.
Pro 1:28 Then they will call upon me, but I will not answer; they will seek me diligently but will not find me.
Pro 1:29 Because they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the LORD,
Pro 1:30 would have none of my counsel and despised all my reproof,Pro 1:31 therefore they shall eat the fruit of their way, and have their fill of their own devices.
Pro 1:32 For the simple are killed by their turning away, and the complacency of fools destroys them;
Pro 1:33 but whoever listens to me will dwell secure and will be at ease, without dread of disaster."
Pro 2:1 My son, if you receive my words and treasure up my commandments with you,
Pro 2:2 making your ear attentive to wisdom and inclining your heart to understanding;
Pro 2:3 yes, if you call out for insight and raise your voice for understanding,
Pro 2:4 if you seek it like silver and search for it as for hidden treasures,
Pro 2:5 then you will understand the fear of the LORD and find the knowledge of God.
Pro 2:6 For the LORD gives wisdom; from his mouth come knowledge and understanding;
Pro 2:7 he stores up sound wisdom for the upright; he is a shield to those who walk in integrity,
Pro 2:8 guarding the paths of justice and watching over the way of his saints.
Pro 2:9 Then you will understand righteousness and justice and equity, every good path;
Pro 2:10 for wisdom will come into your heart, and knowledge will be pleasant to your soul;
Pro 2:11 discretion will watch over you, understanding will guard you,
Pro 2:12 delivering you from the way of evil, from men of perverted speech,
Pro 2:13 who forsake the paths of uprightness to walk in the ways of darkness,
Pro 2:14 who rejoice in doing evil and delight in the perverseness of evil,
Pro 2:15 men whose paths are crooked, and who are devious in their ways.
Pro 2:16 So you will be delivered from the forbidden woman, from the adulteress with her smooth words,
Pro 2:17 who forsakes the companion of her youth and forgets the covenant of her God;
Pro 2:18 for her house sinks down to death, and her paths to the departed;
Pro 2:19 none who go to her come back, nor do they regain the paths of life.
Pro 2:20 So you will walk in the way of the good and keep to the paths of the righteous.
Pro 2:21 For the upright will inhabit the land, and those with integrity will remain in it,
Pro 2:22 but the wicked will be cut off from the land, and the treacherous will be rooted out of it.
Pro 3:1 My son, do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments,
Pro 3:2 for length of days and years of life and peace they will add to you.
Pro 3:3 Let not steadfast love and faithfulness forsake you; bind them around your neck; write them on the
tablet of your heart.
Pro 3:4 So you will find favor and good success in the sight of God and man.
Pro 3:5 Trust in the LORD with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding.
Pro 3:6 In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths.
Pro 3:7 Be not wise in your own eyes; fear the LORD, and turn away from evil.
Pro 3:8 It will be healing to your flesh and refreshment to your bones.
Pro 3:9 Honor the LORD with your wealth and with the firstfruits of all your produce;
Pro 3:10 then your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will be bursting with wine.
Pro 3:11 My son, do not despise the LORD's discipline or be weary of his reproof,
Pro 3:12 for the LORD reproves him whom he loves, as a father the son in whom he delights.
Pro 3:13 Blessed is the one who finds wisdom, and the one who gets understanding,
Pro 3:14 for the gain from her is better than gain from silver and her profit better than gold.
Pro 3:15 She is more precious than jewels, and nothing you desire can compare with her.
Pro 3:16 Long life is in her right hand; in her left hand are riches and honor.
Pro 3:17 Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace.
Pro 3:18 She is a tree of life to those who lay hold of her; those who hold her fast are called blessed.
Pro 3:19 The LORD by wisdom founded the earth; by understanding he established the heavens;
Pro 3:20 by his knowledge the deeps broke open, and the clouds drop down the dew.
Pro 3:21 My son, do not lose sight of these- keep sound wisdom and discretion,
Pro 3:22 and they will be life for your soul and adornment for your neck.
Pro 3:23 Then you will walk on your way securely, and your foot will not stumble.
Pro 3:24 If you lie down, you will not be afraid; when you lie down, your sleep will be sweet.
Pro 3:25 Do not be afraid of sudden terror or of the ruin of the wicked, when it comes,
Pro 3:26 for the LORD will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being caught.
Pro 3:27 Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in your power to do it.
Pro 3:28 Do not say to your neighbor, "Go, and come again, tomorrow I will give it"- when you have it with you.
Pro 3:29 Do not plan evil against your neighbor, who dwells trustingly beside you.
Pro 3:30 Do not contend with a man for no reason, when he has done you no harm.
Pro 3:31 Do not envy a man of violence and do not choose any of his ways,
Pro 3:32 for the devious person is an abomination to the LORD, but the upright are in his confidence.
Pro 3:33 The LORD's curse is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the dwelling of the righteous.Pro 3:34 Toward the scorners he is scornful, but to the humble he gives favor.
Pro 3:35 The wise will inherit honor, but fools get disgrace.
Pro 4:1 Hear, O sons, a father's instruction, and be attentive, that you may gain insight,
Pro 4:2 for I give you good precepts; do not forsake my teaching.
Pro 4:3 When I was a son with my father, tender, the only one in the sight of my mother,
Pro 4:4 he taught me and said to me, "Let your heart hold fast my words; keep my commandments, and live.
Pro 4:5 Get wisdom; get insight; do not forget, and do not turn away from the words of my mouth.
Pro 4:6 Do not forsake her, and she will keep you; love her, and she will guard you.
Pro 4:7 The beginning of wisdom is this: Get wisdom, and whatever you get, get insight.
Pro 4:8 Prize her highly, and she will exalt you; she will honor you if you embrace her.
Pro 4:9 She will place on your head a graceful garland; she will bestow on you a beautiful crown."
Pro 4:10 Hear, my son, and accept my words, that the years of your life may be many.
Pro 4:11 I have taught you the way of wisdom; I have led you in the paths of uprightness.
Pro 4:12 When you walk, your step will not be hampered, and if you run, you will not stumble.
Pro 4:13 Keep hold of instruction; do not let go; guard her, for she is your life.
Pro 4:14 Do not enter the path of the wicked, and do not walk in the way of the evil.
Pro 4:15 Avoid it; do not go on it; turn away from it and pass on.
Pro 4:16 For they cannot sleep unless they have done wrong; they are robbed of sleep unless they have made
someone stumble.
Pro 4:17 For they eat the bread of wickedness and drink the wine of violence.
Pro 4:18 But the path of the righteous is like the light of dawn, which shines brighter and brighter until full day.
Pro 4:19 The way of the wicked is like deep darkness; they do not know over what they stumble.
Pro 4:20 My son, be attentive to my words; incline your ear to my sayings.
Pro 4:21 Let them not escape from your sight; keep them within your heart.
Pro 4:22 For they are life to those who find them, and healing to all their flesh.
Pro 4:23 Keep your heart with all vigilance, for from it flow the springs of life.
Pro 4:24 Put away from you crooked speech, and put devious talk far from you.
Pro 4:25 Let your eyes look directly forward, and your gaze be straight before you.
Pro 4:26 Ponder the path of your feet; then all your ways will be sure.
Pro 4:27 Do not swerve to the right or to the left; turn your foot away from evil.
Pro 5:1 My son, be attentive to my wisdom; incline your ear to my understanding,
Pro 5:2 that you may keep discretion, and your lips may guard knowledge.
Pro 5:3 For the lips of a forbidden woman drip honey, and her speech is smoother than oil,
Pro 5:4 but in the end she is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword.
Pro 5:5 Her feet go down to death; her steps follow the path to Sheol;
Pro 5:6 she does not ponder the path of life; her ways wander, and she does not know it.
Pro 5:7 And now, O sons, listen to me, and do not depart from the words of my mouth.
Pro 5:8 Keep your way far from her, and do not go near the door of her house,
Pro 5:9 lest you give your honor to others and your years to the merciless,
Pro 5:10 lest strangers take their fill of your strength, and your labors go to the house of a foreigner,
Pro 5:11 and at the end of your life you groan, when your flesh and body are consumed,
Pro 5:12 and you say, "How I hated discipline, and my heart despised reproof!
Pro 5:13 I did not listen to the voice of my teachers or incline my ear to my instructors.
Pro 5:14 I am at the brink of utter ruin in the assembled congregation."
Pro 5:15 Drink water from your own cistern, flowing water from your own well.
Pro 5:16 Should your springs be scattered abroad, streams of water in the streets?
Pro 5:17 Let them be for yourself alone, and not for strangers with you.
Pro 5:18 Let your fountain be blessed, and rejoice in the wife of your youth,
Pro 5:19 a lovely deer, a graceful doe. Let her breasts fill you at all times with delight; be intoxicated always in
her love.
Pro 5:20 Why should you be intoxicated, my son, with a forbidden woman and embrace the bosom of an
adulteress?
Pro 5:21 For a man's ways are before the eyes of the LORD, and he ponders all his paths.
Pro 5:22 The iniquities of the wicked ensnare him, and he is held fast in the cords of his sin.
Pro 5:23 He dies for lack of discipline, and because of his great folly he is led astray.
Pro 6:1 My son, if you have put up security for your neighbor, have given your pledge for a stranger,
Pro 6:2 if you are snared in the words of your mouth, caught in the words of your mouth,
Pro 6:3 then do this, my son, and save yourself, for you have come into the hand of your neighbor: go, hasten,
and plead urgently with your neighbor.Pro 6:4 Give your eyes no sleep and your eyelids no slumber;
Pro 6:5 save yourself like a gazelle from the hand of the hunter, like a bird from the hand of the fowler.
Pro 6:6 Go to the ant, O sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise.
Pro 6:7 Without having any chief, officer, or ruler,
Pro 6:8 she prepares her bread in summer and gathers her food in harvest.
Pro 6:9 How long will you lie there, O sluggard? When will you arise from your sleep?
Pro 6:10 A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest,
Pro 6:11 and poverty will come upon you like a robber, and want like an armed man.
Pro 6:12 A worthless person, a wicked man, goes about with crooked speech,
Pro 6:13 winks with his eyes, signals with his feet, points with his finger,
Pro 6:14 with perverted heart devises evil, continually sowing discord;
Pro 6:15 therefore calamity will come upon him suddenly; in a moment he will be broken beyond healing.
Pro 6:16 There are six things that the LORD hates, seven that are an abomination to him:
Pro 6:17 haughty eyes, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood,
Pro 6:18 a heart that devises wicked plans, feet that make haste to run to evil,
Pro 6:19 a false witness who breathes out lies, and one who sows discord among brothers.
Pro 6:20 My son, keep your father's commandment, and forsake not your mother's teaching.
Pro 6:21 Bind them on your heart always; tie them around your neck.
Pro 6:22 When you walk, they will lead you; when you lie down, they will watch over you; and when you awake,
they will talk with you.
Pro 6:23 For the commandment is a lamp and the teaching a light, and the reproofs of discipline are the way of
life,
Pro 6:24 to preserve you from the evil woman, from the smooth tongue of the adulteress.
Pro 6:25 Do not desire her beauty in your heart, and do not let her capture you with her eyelashes;
Pro 6:26 for the price of a prostitute is only a loaf of bread, but a married woman hunts down a precious life.
Pro 6:27 Can a man carry fire next to his chest and his clothes not be burned?
Pro 6:28 Or can one walk on hot coals and his feet not be scorched?
Pro 6:29 So is he who goes in to his neighbor's wife; none who touches her will go unpunished.
Pro 6:30 People do not despise a thief if he steals to satisfy his appetite when he is hungry,
Pro 6:31 but if he is caught, he will pay sevenfold; he will give all the goods of his house.
Pro 6:32 He who commits adultery lacks sense; he who does it destroys himself.
Pro 6:33 Wounds and dishonor will he get, and his disgrace will not be wiped away.
Pro 6:34 For jealousy makes a man furious, and he will not spare when he takes revenge.
Pro 6:35 He will accept no compensation; he will refuse though you multiply gifts.
Pro 7:1 My son, keep my wordsand treasure up my commandments with you;
Pro 7:2 keep my commandments and live; keep my teaching as the apple of your eye;
Pro 7:3 bind them on your fingers; write them on the tablet of your heart.
Pro 7:4 Say to wisdom, "You are my sister," and call insight your intimate friend,
Pro 7:5 to keep you from the forbidden woman, from the adulteress with her smooth words.
Pro 7:6 For at the window of my house I have looked out through my lattice,
Pro 7:7 and I have seen among the simple, I have perceived among the youths, a young man lacking sense,
Pro 7:8 passing along the street near her corner, taking the road to her house
Pro 7:9 in the twilight, in the evening, at the time of night and darkness.
Pro 7:10 And behold, the woman meets him, dressed as a prostitute, wily of heart.
Pro 7:11 She is loud and wayward; her feet do not stay at home;
Pro 7:12 now in the street, now in the market, and at every corner she lies in wait.
Pro 7:13 She seizes him and kisses him, and with bold face she says to him,
Pro 7:14 "I had to offer sacrifices, and today I have paid my vows;
Pro 7:15 so now I have come out to meet you, to seek you eagerly, and I have found you.
Pro 7:16 I have spread my couch with coverings, colored linens from Egyptian linen;
Pro 7:17 I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.
Pro 7:18 Come, let us take our fill of love till morning; let us delight ourselves with love.
Pro 7:19 For my husband is not at home; he has gone on a long journey;
Pro 7:20 he took a bag of money with him; at full moon he will come home."
Pro 7:21 With much seductive speech she persuades him; with her smooth talk she compels him.
Pro 7:22 All at once he follows her, as an ox goes to the slaughter, or as a stag is caught fast
Pro 7:23 till an arrow pierces its liver; as a bird rushes into a snare; he does not know that it will cost him his life.
Pro 7:24 And now, O sons, listen to me, and be attentive to the words of my mouth.
Pro 7:25 Let not your heart turn aside to her ways; do not stray into her paths,Pro 7:26 for many a victim has she laid low, and all her slain are a mighty throng.
Pro 7:27 Her house is the way to Sheol, going down to the chambers of death.
Pro 8:1 Does not wisdom call?Does not understanding raise her voice?
Pro 8:2 On the heights beside the way, at the crossroads she takes her stand;
Pro 8:3 beside the gates in front of the town, at the entrance of the portals she cries aloud:
Pro 8:4 "To you, O men, I call, and my cry is to the children of man.
Pro 8:5 O simple ones, learn prudence; O fools, learn sense.
Pro 8:6 Hear, for I will speak noble things, and from my lips will come what is right,
Pro 8:7 for my mouth will utter truth; wickedness is an abomination to my lips.
Pro 8:8 All the words of my mouth are righteous; there is nothing twisted or crooked in them.
Pro 8:9 They are all straight to him who understands, and right to those who find knowledge.
Pro 8:10 Take my instruction instead of silver, and knowledge rather than choice gold,
Pro 8:11 for wisdom is better than jewels, and all that you may desire cannot compare with her.
Pro 8:12 "I, wisdom, dwell with prudence, and I find knowledge and discretion.
Pro 8:13 The fear of the LORD is hatred of evil. Pride and arrogance and the way of evil and perverted speech I
hate.
Pro 8:14 I have counsel and sound wisdom; I have insight; I have strength.
Pro 8:15 By me kings reign, and rulers decree what is just;
Pro 8:16 by me princes rule, and nobles, all who govern justly.
Pro 8:17 I love those who love me, and those who seek me diligently find me.
Pro 8:18 Riches and honor are with me, enduring wealth and righteousness.
Pro 8:19 My fruit is better than gold, even fine gold, and my yield than choice silver.
Pro 8:20 I walk in the way of righteousness, in the paths of justice,
Pro 8:21 granting an inheritance to those who love me, and filling their treasuries.
Pro 8:22 "The LORD possessed me at the beginning of his work, the first of his acts of old.
Pro 8:23 Ages ago I was set up, at the first, before the beginning of the earth.
Pro 8:24 When there were no depths I was brought forth, when there were no springs abounding with water.
Pro 8:25 Before the mountains had been shaped, before the hills, I was brought forth,
Pro 8:26 before he had made the earth with its fields, or the first of the dust of the world.
Pro 8:27 When he established the heavens, I was there; when he drew a circle on the face of the deep,
Pro 8:28 when he made firm the skies above, when he established the fountains of the deep,
Pro 8:29 when he assigned to the sea its limit, so that the waters might not transgress his command, when he
marked out the foundations of the earth,
Pro 8:30 then I was beside him, like a master workman, and I was daily his delight, rejoicing before him always,
Pro 8:31 rejoicing in his inhabited world and delighting in the children of man.
Pro 8:32 "And now, O sons, listen to me: blessed are those who keep my ways.
Pro 8:33 Hear instruction and be wise, and do not neglect it.
Pro 8:34 Blessed is the one who listens to me, watching daily at my gates, waiting beside my doors.
Pro 8:35 For whoever finds me finds life and obtains favor from the LORD,
Pro 8:36 but he who fails to find me injures himself; all who hate me love death."
Pro 9:1 Wisdom has built her house;she has hewn her seven pillars.
Pro 9:2 She has slaughtered her beasts; she has mixed her wine; she has also set her table.
Pro 9:3 She has sent out her young women to call from the highest places in the town,
Pro 9:4 "Whoever is simple, let him turn in here!" To him who lacks sense she says,
Pro 9:5 "Come, eat of my bread and drink of the wine I have mixed.
Pro 9:6 Leave your simple ways, and live, and walk in the way of insight."
Pro 9:7 Whoever corrects a scoffer gets himself abuse, and he who reproves a wicked man incurs injury.
Pro 9:8 Do not reprove a scoffer, or he will hate you; reprove a wise man, and he will love you.
Pro 9:9 Give instruction to a wise man, and he will be still wiser; teach a righteous man, and he will increase in
learning.
Pro 9:10 The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy One is insight.
Pro 9:11 For by me your days will be multiplied, and years will be added to your life.
Pro 9:12 If you are wise, you are wise for yourself; if you scoff, you alone will bear it.
Pro 9:13 The woman Folly is loud; she is seductive and knows nothing.
Pro 9:14 She sits at the door of her house; she takes a seat on the highest places of the town,
Pro 9:15 calling to those who pass by, who are going straight on their way,
Pro 9:16 "Whoever is simple, let him turn in here!" And to him who lacks sense she says,
Pro 9:17 "Stolen water is sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant."
Pro 9:18 But he does not know that the dead are there, that her guests are in the depths of Sheol.Pro 10:1 The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish son is a sorrow to his mother.
Pro 10:2 Treasures gained by wickedness do not profit, but righteousness delivers from death.
Pro 10:3 The LORD does not let the righteous go hungry, but he thwarts the craving of the wicked.
Pro 10:4 A slack hand causes poverty, but the hand of the diligent makes rich.
Pro 10:5 He who gathers in summer is a prudent son, but he who sleeps in harvest is a son who brings shame.
Pro 10:6 Blessings are on the head of the righteous, but the mouth of the wicked conceals violence.
Pro 10:7 The memory of the righteous is a blessing, but the name of the wicked will rot.
Pro 10:8 The wise of heart will receive commandments, but a babbling fool will come to ruin.
Pro 10:9 Whoever walks in integrity walks securely, but he who makes his ways crooked will be found out.
Pro 10:10 Whoever winks the eye causes trouble, but a babbling fool will come to ruin.
Pro 10:11 The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life, but the mouth of the wicked conceals violence.
Pro 10:12 Hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all offenses.
Pro 10:13 On the lips of him who has understanding, wisdom is found, but a rod is for the back of him who lacks
sense.
Pro 10:14 The wise lay up knowledge, but the mouth of a fool brings ruin near.
Pro 10:15 A rich man's wealth is his strong city; the poverty of the poor is their ruin.
Pro 10:16 The wage of the righteous leads to life, the gain of the wicked to sin.
Pro 10:17 Whoever heeds instruction is on the path to life, but he who rejects reproof leads others astray.
Pro 10:18 The one who conceals hatred has lying lips, and whoever utters slander is a fool.
Pro 10:19 When words are many, transgression is not lacking, but whoever restrains his lips is prudent.
Pro 10:20 The tongue of the righteous is choice silver; the heart of the wicked is of little worth.
Pro 10:21 The lips of the righteous feed many, but fools die for lack of sense.
Pro 10:22 The blessing of the LORD makes rich, and he adds no sorrow with it.
Pro 10:23 Doing wrong is like a joke to a fool, but wisdom is pleasure to a man of understanding.
Pro 10:24 What the wicked dreads will come upon him, but the desire of the righteous will be granted.
Pro 10:25 When the tempest passes, the wicked is no more, but the righteous is established forever.
Pro 10:26 Like vinegar to the teeth and smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to those who send him.
Pro 10:27 The fear of the LORD prolongs life, but the years of the wicked will be short.
Pro 10:28 The hope of the righteous brings joy, but the expectation of the wicked will perish.
Pro 10:29 The way of the LORD is a stronghold to the blameless, but destruction to evildoers.
Pro 10:30 The righteous will never be removed, but the wicked will not dwell in the land.
Pro 10:31 The mouth of the righteous brings forth wisdom, but the perverse tongue will be cut off.
Pro 10:32 The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable, but the mouth of the wicked, what is perverse.
Pro 11:1 A false balance is an abomination to the LORD, but a just weight is his delight.
Pro 11:2 When pride comes, then comes disgrace, but with the humble is wisdom.
Pro 11:3 The integrity of the upright guides them, but the crookedness of the treacherous destroys them.
Pro 11:4 Riches do not profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death.
Pro 11:5 The righteousness of the blameless keeps his way straight, but the wicked falls by his own
wickedness.
Pro 11:6 The righteousness of the upright delivers them, but the treacherous are taken captive by their lust.
Pro 11:7 When the wicked dies, his hope will perish, and the expectation of wealth perishes too.
Pro 11:8 The righteous is delivered from trouble, and the wicked walks into it instead.
Pro 11:9 With his mouth the godless man would destroy his neighbor, but by knowledge the righteous are
delivered.
Pro 11:10 When it goes well with the righteous, the city rejoices, and when the wicked perish there are shouts of
gladness.
Pro 11:11 By the blessing of the upright a city is exalted, but by the mouth of the wicked it is overthrown.
Pro 11:12 Whoever belittles his neighbor lacks sense, but a man of understanding remains silent.
Pro 11:13 Whoever goes about slandering reveals secrets, but he who is trustworthy in spirit keeps a thing
covered.
Pro 11:14 Where there is no guidance, a people falls, but in an abundance of counselors there is safety.
Pro 11:15 Whoever puts up security for a stranger will surely suffer harm, but he who hates striking hands in
pledge is secure.
Pro 11:16 A gracious woman gets honor, and violent men get riches.
Pro 11:17 A man who is kind benefits himself, but a cruel man hurts himself.
Pro 11:18 The wicked earns deceptive wages, but one who sows righteousness gets a sure reward.
Pro 11:19 Whoever is steadfast in righteousness will live, but he who pursues evil will die.
Pro 11:20 Those of crooked heart are an abomination to the LORD, but those of blameless ways are his delight.
Pro 11:21 Be assured, an evil person will not go unpunished, but the offspring of the righteous will be delivered.Pro 11:22 Like a gold ring in a pig's snout is a beautiful woman without discretion.
Pro 11:23 The desire of the righteous ends only in good; the expectation of the wicked in wrath.
Pro 11:24 One gives freely, yet grows all the richer; another withholds what he should give, and only suffers
want.
Pro 11:25 Whoever brings blessing will be enriched, and one who waters will himself be watered.
Pro 11:26 The people curse him who holds back grain, but a blessing is on the head of him who sells it.
Pro 11:27 Whoever diligently seeks good seeks favor, but evil comes to him who searches for it.
Pro 11:28 Whoever trusts in his riches will fall, but the righteous will flourish like a green leaf.
Pro 11:29 Whoever troubles his own household will inherit the wind, and the fool will be servant to the wise of
heart.
Pro 11:30 The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and whoever captures souls is wise.
Pro 11:31 If the righteous is repaid on earth, how much more the wicked and the sinner!
Pro 12:1 Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge, but he who hates reproof is stupid.
Pro 12:2 A good man obtains favor from the LORD, but a man of evil devices he condemns.
Pro 12:3 No one is established by wickedness, but the root of the righteous will never be moved.
Pro 12:4 An excellent wife is the crown of her husband, but she who brings shame is like rottenness in his
bones.
Pro 12:5 The thoughts of the righteous are just; the counsels of the wicked are deceitful.
Pro 12:6 The words of the wicked lie in wait for blood, but the mouth of the upright delivers them.
Pro 12:7 The wicked are overthrown and are no more, but the house of the righteous will stand.
Pro 12:8 A man is commended according to his good sense, but one of twisted mind is despised.
Pro 12:9 Better to be lowly and have a servant than to play the great man and lack bread.
Pro 12:10 Whoever is righteous has regard for the life of his beast, but the mercy of the wicked is cruel.
Pro 12:11 Whoever works his land will have plenty of bread, but he who follows worthless pursuits lacks sense.
Pro 12:12 Whoever is wicked covets the spoil of evildoers, but the root of the righteous bears fruit.
Pro 12:13 An evil man is ensnared by the transgression of his lips, but the righteous escapes from trouble.
Pro 12:14 From the fruit of his mouth a man is satisfied with good, and the work of a man's hand comes back to
him.
Pro 12:15 The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, but a wise man listens to advice.
Pro 12:16 The vexation of a fool is known at once, but the prudent ignores an insult.
Pro 12:17 Whoever speaks the truth gives honest evidence, but a false witness utters deceit.
Pro 12:18 There is one whose rash words are like sword thrusts, but the tongue of the wise brings healing.
Pro 12:19 Truthful lips endure forever, but a lying tongue is but for a moment.
Pro 12:20 Deceit is in the heart of those who devise evil, but those who plan peace have joy.
Pro 12:21 No ill befalls the righteous, but the wicked are filled with trouble.
Pro 12:22 Lying lips are an abomination to the LORD, but those who act faithfully are his delight.
Pro 12:23 A prudent man conceals knowledge, but the heart of fools proclaims folly.
Pro 12:24 The hand of the diligent will rule, while the slothful will be put to forced labor.
Pro 12:25 Anxiety in a man's heart weighs him down, but a good word makes him glad.
Pro 12:26 One who is righteous is a guide to his neighbor, but the way of the wicked leads them astray.
Pro 12:27 Whoever is slothful will not roast his game, but the diligent man will get precious wealth.
Pro 12:28 In the path of righteousness is life, and in its pathway there is no death.
Pro 13:1 A wise son hears his father's instruction, but a scoffer does not listen to rebuke.
Pro 13:2 From the fruit of his mouth a man eats what is good, but the desire of the treacherous is for violence.
Pro 13:3 Whoever guards his mouth preserves his life; he who opens wide his lips comes to ruin.
Pro 13:4 The soul of the sluggard craves and gets nothing, while the soul of the diligent is richly supplied.
Pro 13:5 The righteous hates falsehood, but the wicked brings shame and disgrace.
Pro 13:6 Righteousness guards him whose way is blameless, but sin overthrows the wicked.
Pro 13:7 One pretends to be rich, yet has nothing; another pretends to be poor, yet has great wealth.
Pro 13:8 The ransom of a man's life is his wealth, but a poor man hears no threat.
Pro 13:9 The light of the righteous rejoices, but the lamp of the wicked will be put out.
Pro 13:10 By insolence comes nothing but strife, but with those who take advice is wisdom.
Pro 13:11 Wealth gained hastily will dwindle, but whoever gathers little by little will increase it.
Pro 13:12 Hope deferred makes the heart sick, but a desire fulfilled is a tree of life.
Pro 13:13 Whoever despises the word brings destruction on himself, but he who reveres the commandment will
be rewarded.
Pro 13:14 The teaching of the wise is a fountain of life, that one may turn away from the snares of death.
Pro 13:15 Good sense wins favor, but the way of the treacherous is their ruin.
Pro 13:16 In everything the prudent acts with knowledge, but a fool flaunts his folly.Pro 13:17 A wicked messenger falls into trouble, but a faithful envoy brings healing.
Pro 13:18 Poverty and disgrace come to him who ignores instruction, but whoever heeds reproof is honored.
Pro 13:19 A desire fulfilled is sweet to the soul, but to turn away from evil is an abomination to fools.
Pro 13:20 Whoever walks with the wise becomes wise, but the companion of fools will suffer harm.
Pro 13:21 Disaster pursues sinners, but the righteous are rewarded with good.
Pro 13:22 A good man leaves an inheritance to his children's children, but the sinner's wealth is laid up for the
righteous.
Pro 13:23 The fallow ground of the poor would yield much food, but it is swept away through injustice.
Pro 13:24 Whoever spares the rod hates his son, but he who loves him is diligent to discipline him.
Pro 13:25 The righteous has enough to satisfy his appetite, but the belly of the wicked suffers want.
Pro 14:1 The wisest of women builds her house, but folly with her own hands tears it down.
Pro 14:2 Whoever walks in uprightness fears the LORD, but he who is devious in his ways despises him.
Pro 14:3 By the mouth of a fool comes a rod for his back, but the lips of the wise will preserve them.
Pro 14:4 Where there are no oxen, the manger is clean, but abundant crops come by the strength of the ox.
Pro 14:5 A faithful witness does not lie, but a false witness breathes out lies.
Pro 14:6 A scoffer seeks wisdom in vain, but knowledge is easy for a man of understanding.
Pro 14:7 Leave the presence of a fool, for there you do not meet words of knowledge.
Pro 14:8 The wisdom of the prudent is to discern his way, but the folly of fools is deceiving.
Pro 14:9 Fools mock at the guilt offering, but the upright enjoy acceptance.
Pro 14:10 The heart knows its own bitterness, and no stranger shares its joy.
Pro 14:11 The house of the wicked will be destroyed, but the tent of the upright will flourish.
Pro 14:12 There is a way that seems right to a man, but its end is the way to death.
Pro 14:13 Even in laughter the heart may ache, and the end of joy may be grief.
Pro 14:14 The backslider in heart will be filled with the fruit of his ways, and a good man will be filled with the
fruit of his ways.
Pro 14:15 The simple believes everything, but the prudent gives thought to his steps.
Pro 14:16 One who is wise is cautious and turns away from evil, but a fool is reckless and careless.
Pro 14:17 A man of quick temper acts foolishly, and a man of evil devices is hated.
Pro 14:18 The simple inherit folly, but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.
Pro 14:19 The evil bow down before the good, the wicked at the gates of the righteous.
Pro 14:20 The poor is disliked even by his neighbor, but the rich has many friends.
Pro 14:21 Whoever despises his neighbor is a sinner, but blessed is he who is generous to the poor.
Pro 14:22 Do they not go astray who devise evil? Those who devise good meet steadfast love and faithfulness.
Pro 14:23 In all toil there is profit, but mere talk tends only to poverty.
Pro 14:24 The crown of the wise is their wealth, but the folly of fools brings folly.
Pro 14:25 A truthful witness saves lives, but one who breathes out lies is deceitful.
Pro 14:26 In the fear of the LORD one has strong confidence, and his children will have a refuge.
Pro 14:27 The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life, that one may turn away from the snares of death.
Pro 14:28 In a multitude of people is the glory of a king, but without people a prince is ruined.
Pro 14:29 Whoever is slow to anger has great understanding, but he who has a hasty temper exalts folly.
Pro 14:30 A tranquil heart gives life to the flesh, but envy makes the bones rot.
Pro 14:31 Whoever oppresses a poor man insults his Maker, but he who is generous to the needy honors him.
Pro 14:32 The wicked is overthrown through his evildoing, but the righteous finds refuge in his death.
Pro 14:33 Wisdom rests in the heart of a man of understanding, but it makes itself known even in the midst of
fools.
Pro 14:34 Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people.
Pro 14:35 A servant who deals wisely has the king's favor, but his wrath falls on one who acts shamefully.
Pro 15:1 A soft answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger.
Pro 15:2 The tongue of the wise commends knowledge, but the mouths of fools pour out folly.
Pro 15:3 The eyes of the LORD are in every place, keeping watch on the evil and the good.
Pro 15:4 A gentle tongue is a tree of life, but perverseness in it breaks the spirit.
Pro 15:5 A fool despises his father's instruction, but whoever heeds reproof is prudent.
Pro 15:6 In the house of the righteous there is much treasure, but trouble befalls the income of the wicked.
Pro 15:7 The lips of the wise spread knowledge; not so the hearts of fools.
Pro 15:8 The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD, but the prayer of the upright is acceptable
to him.
Pro 15:9 The way of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD, but he loves him who pursues righteousness.
Pro 15:10 There is severe discipline for him who forsakes the way; whoever hates reproof will die.
Pro 15:11 Sheol and Abaddon lie open before the LORD; how much more the hearts of the children of man!Pro 15:12 A scoffer does not like to be reproved; he will not go to the wise.
Pro 15:13 A glad heart makes a cheerful face, but by sorrow of heart the spirit is crushed.
Pro 15:14 The heart of him who has understanding seeks knowledge, but the mouths of fools feed on folly.
Pro 15:15 All the days of the afflicted are evil, but the cheerful of heart has a continual feast.
Pro 15:16 Better is a little with the fear of the LORD than great treasure and trouble with it.
Pro 15:17 Better is a dinner of herbs where love is than a fattened ox and hatred with it.
Pro 15:18 A hot-tempered man stirs up strife, but he who is slow to anger quiets contention.
Pro 15:19 The way of a sluggard is like a hedge of thorns, but the path of the upright is a level highway.
Pro 15:20 A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish man despises his mother.
Pro 15:21 Folly is a joy to him who lacks sense, but a man of understanding walks straight ahead.
Pro 15:22 Without counsel plans fail, but with many advisers they succeed.
Pro 15:23 To make an apt answer is a joy to a man, and a word in season, how good it is!
Pro 15:24 The path of life leads upward for the prudent, that he may turn away from Sheol beneath.
Pro 15:25 The LORD tears down the house of the proud but maintains the widow's boundaries.
Pro 15:26 The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the LORD, but gracious words are pure.
Pro 15:27 Whoever is greedy for unjust gain troubles his own household, but he who hates bribes will live.
Pro 15:28 The heart of the righteous ponders how to answer, but the mouth of the wicked pours out evil things.
Pro 15:29 The LORD is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous.
Pro 15:30 The light of the eyes rejoices the heart, and good news refreshes the bones.
Pro 15:31 The ear that listens to life-giving reproof will dwell among the wise.
Pro 15:32 Whoever ignores instruction despises himself, but he who listens to reproof gains intelligence.
Pro 15:33 The fear of the LORD is instruction in wisdom, and humility comes before honor.
Pro 16:1 The plans of the heart belong to man, but the answer of the tongue is from the LORD.
Pro 16:2 All the ways of a man are pure in his own eyes, but the LORD weighs the spirit.
Pro 16:3 Commit your work to the LORD, and your plans will be established.
Pro 16:4 The LORD has made everything for its purpose, even the wicked for the day of trouble.
Pro 16:5 Everyone who is arrogant in heart is an abomination to the LORD; be assured, he will not go
unpunished.
Pro 16:6 By steadfast love and faithfulness iniquity is atoned for, and by the fear of the LORD one turns away
from evil.
Pro 16:7 When a man's ways please the LORD, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him.
Pro 16:8 Better is a little with righteousness than great revenues with injustice.
Pro 16:9 The heart of man plans his way, but the LORD establishes his steps.
Pro 16:10 An oracle is on the lips of a king; his mouth does not sin in judgment.
Pro 16:11 A just balance and scales are the LORD's; all the weights in the bag are his work.
Pro 16:12 It is an abomination to kings to do evil, for the throne is established by righteousness.
Pro 16:13 Righteous lips are the delight of a king, and he loves him who speaks what is right.
Pro 16:14 A king's wrath is a messenger of death, and a wise man will appease it.
Pro 16:15 In the light of a king's face there is life, and his favor is like the clouds that bring the spring rain.
Pro 16:16 How much better to get wisdom than gold! To get understanding is to be chosen rather than silver.
Pro 16:17 The highway of the upright turns aside from evil; whoever guards his way preserves his life.
Pro 16:18 Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.
Pro 16:19 It is better to be of a lowly spirit with the poor than to divide the spoil with the proud.
Pro 16:20 Whoever gives thought to the word will discover good, and blessed is he who trusts in the LORD.
Pro 16:21 The wise of heart is called discerning, and sweetness of speech increases persuasiveness.
Pro 16:22 Good sense is a fountain of life to him who has it, but the instruction of fools is folly.
Pro 16:23 The heart of the wise makes his speech judicious and adds persuasiveness to his lips.
Pro 16:24 Gracious words are like a honeycomb, sweetness to the soul and health to the body.
Pro 16:25 There is a way that seems right to a man, but its end is the way to death.
Pro 16:26 A worker's appetite works for him; his mouth urges him on.
Pro 16:27 A worthless man plots evil, and his speech is like a scorching fire.
Pro 16:28 A dishonest man spreads strife, and a whisperer separates close friends.
Pro 16:29 A man of violence entices his neighbor and leads him in a way that is not good.
Pro 16:30 Whoever winks his eyes plans dishonest things; he who purses his lips brings evil to pass.
Pro 16:31 Gray hair is a crown of glory; it is gained in a righteous life.
Pro 16:32 Whoever is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he who rules his spirit than he who takes a
city.
Pro 16:33 The lot is cast into the lap, but its every decision is from the LORD.
Pro 17:1 Better is a dry morsel with quiet than a house full of feasting with strife.Pro 17:2 A servant who deals wisely will rule over a son who acts shamefully and will share the inheritance as
one of the brothers.
Pro 17:3 The crucible is for silver, and the furnace is for gold, and the LORD tests hearts.
Pro 17:4 An evildoer listens to wicked lips, and a liar gives ear to a mischievous tongue.
Pro 17:5 Whoever mocks the poor insults his Maker; he who is glad at calamity will not go unpunished.
Pro 17:6 Grandchildren are the crown of the aged, and the glory of children is their fathers.
Pro 17:7 Fine speech is not becoming to a fool; still less is false speech to a prince.
Pro 17:8 A bribe is like a magic stone in the eyes of the one who gives it; wherever he turns he prospers.
Pro 17:9 Whoever covers an offense seeks love, but he who repeats a matter separates close friends.
Pro 17:10 A rebuke goes deeper into a man of understanding than a hundred blows into a fool.
Pro 17:11 An evil man seeks only rebellion, and a cruel messenger will be sent against him.
Pro 17:12 Let a man meet a she-bear robbed of her cubs rather than a fool in his folly.
Pro 17:13 If anyone returns evil for good, evil will not depart from his house.
Pro 17:14 The beginning of strife is like letting out water, so quit before the quarrel breaks out.
Pro 17:15 He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the righteous are both alike an abomination to the
LORD.
Pro 17:16 Why should a fool have money in his hand to buy wisdom when he has no sense?
Pro 17:17 A friend loves at all times, and a brother is born for adversity.
Pro 17:18 One who lacks sense gives a pledge and puts up security in the presence of his neighbor.
Pro 17:19 Whoever loves transgression loves strife; he who makes his door high seeks destruction.
Pro 17:20 A man of crooked heart does not discover good, and one with a dishonest tongue falls into calamity.
Pro 17:21 He who sires a fool gets himself sorrow, and the father of a fool has no joy.
Pro 17:22 A joyful heart is good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.
Pro 17:23 The wicked accepts a bribe in secret to pervert the ways of justice.
Pro 17:24 The discerning sets his face toward wisdom, but the eyes of a fool are on the ends of the earth.
Pro 17:25 A foolish son is a grief to his father and bitterness to her who bore him.
Pro 17:26 To impose a fine on a righteous man is not good, nor to strike the noble for their uprightness.
Pro 17:27 Whoever restrains his words has knowledge, and he who has a cool spirit is a man of understanding.
Pro 17:28 Even a fool who keeps silent is considered wise; when he closes his lips, he is deemed intelligent.
Pro 18:1 Whoever isolates himself seeks his own desire; he breaks out against all sound judgment.
Pro 18:2 A fool takes no pleasure in understanding, but only in expressing his opinion.
Pro 18:3 When wickedness comes, contempt comes also, and with dishonor comes disgrace.
Pro 18:4 The words of a man's mouth are deep waters; the fountain of wisdom is a bubbling brook.
Pro 18:5 It is not good to be partial to the wicked or to deprive the righteous of justice.
Pro 18:6 A fool's lips walk into a fight, and his mouth invites a beating.
Pro 18:7 A fool's mouth is his ruin, and his lips are a snare to his soul.
Pro 18:8 The words of a whisperer are like delicious morsels; they go down into the inner parts of the body.
Pro 18:9 Whoever is slack in his work is a brother to him who destroys.
Pro 18:10 The name of the LORD is a strong tower; the righteous man runs into it and is safe.
Pro 18:11 A rich man's wealth is his strong city, and like a high wall in his imagination.
Pro 18:12 Before destruction a man's heart is haughty, but humility comes before honor.
Pro 18:13 If one gives an answer before he hears, it is his folly and shame.
Pro 18:14 A man's spirit will endure sickness, but a crushed spirit who can bear?
Pro 18:15 An intelligent heart acquires knowledge, and the ear of the wise seeks knowledge.
Pro 18:16 A man's gift makes room for him and brings him before the great.
Pro 18:17 The one who states his case first seems right, until the other comes and examines him.
Pro 18:18 The lot puts an end to quarrels and decides between powerful contenders.
Pro 18:19 A brother offended is more unyielding than a strong city, and quarreling is like the bars of a castle.
Pro 18:20 From the fruit of a man's mouth his stomach is satisfied; he is satisfied by the yield of his lips.
Pro 18:21 Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and those who love it will eat its fruits.
Pro 18:22 He who finds a wife finds a good thing and obtains favor from the LORD.
Pro 18:23 The poor use entreaties, but the rich answer roughly.
Pro 18:24 A man of many companions may come to ruin, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother.
Pro 19:1 Better is a poor person who walks in his integrity than one who is crooked in speech and is a fool.
Pro 19:2 Desire without knowledge is not good, and whoever makes haste with his feet misses his way.
Pro 19:3 When a man's folly brings his way to ruin, his heart rages against the LORD.
Pro 19:4 Wealth brings many new friends, but a poor man is deserted by his friend.
Pro 19:5 A false witness will not go unpunished, and he who breathes out lies will not escape.
Pro 19:6 Many seek the favor of a generous man, and everyone is a friend to a man who gives gifts.Pro 19:7 All a poor man's brothers hate him; how much more do his friends go far from him! He pursues them
with words, but does not have them.
Pro 19:8 Whoever gets sense loves his own soul; he who keeps understanding will discover good.
Pro 19:9 A false witness will not go unpunished, and he who breathes out lies will perish.
Pro 19:10 It is not fitting for a fool to live in luxury, much less for a slave to rule over princes.
Pro 19:11 Good sense makes one slow to anger, and it is his glory to overlook an offense.
Pro 19:12 A king's wrath is like the growling of a lion, but his favor is like dew on the grass.
Pro 19:13 A foolish son is ruin to his father, and a wife's quarreling is a continual dripping of rain.
Pro 19:14 House and wealth are inherited from fathers, but a prudent wife is from the LORD.
Pro 19:15 Slothfulness casts into a deep sleep, and an idle person will suffer hunger.
Pro 19:16 Whoever keeps the commandment keeps his life; he who despises his ways will die.
Pro 19:17 Whoever is generous to the poor lends to the LORD, and he will repay him for his deed.
Pro 19:18 Discipline your son, for there is hope; do not set your heart on putting him to death.
Pro 19:19 A man of great wrath will pay the penalty, for if you deliver him, you will only have to do it again.
Pro 19:20 Listen to advice and accept instruction, that you may gain wisdom in the future.
Pro 19:21 Many are the plans in the mind of a man, but it is the purpose of the LORD that will stand.
Pro 19:22 What is desired in a man is steadfast love, and a poor man is better than a liar.
Pro 19:23 The fear of the LORD leads to life, and whoever has it rests satisfied; he will not be visited by harm.
Pro 19:24 The sluggard buries his hand in the dish and will not even bring it back to his mouth.
Pro 19:25 Strike a scoffer, and the simple will learn prudence; reprove a man of understanding, and he will gain
knowledge.
Pro 19:26 He who does violence to his father and chases away his mother is a son who brings shame and
reproach.
Pro 19:27 Cease to hear instruction, my son, and you will stray from the words of knowledge.
Pro 19:28 A worthless witness mocks at justice, and the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity.
Pro 19:29 Condemnation is ready for scoffers, and beating for the backs of fools.
Pro 20:1 Wine is a mocker, strong drink a brawler, and whoever is led astray by it is not wise.
Pro 20:2 The terror of a king is like the growling of a lion; whoever provokes him to anger forfeits his life.
Pro 20:3 It is an honor for a man to keep aloof from strife, but every fool will be quarreling.
Pro 20:4 The sluggard does not plow in the autumn; he will seek at harvest and have nothing.
Pro 20:5 The purpose in a man's heart is like deep water, but a man of understanding will draw it out.
Pro 20:6 Many a man proclaims his own steadfast love, but a faithful man who can find?
Pro 20:7 The righteous who walks in his integrity- blessed are his children after him!
Pro 20:8 A king who sits on the throne of judgment winnows all evil with his eyes.
Pro 20:9 Who can say, "I have made my heart pure; I am clean from my sin"?
Pro 20:10 Unequal weights and unequal measures are both alike an abomination to the LORD.
Pro 20:11 Even a child makes himself known by his acts, by whether his conduct is pure and upright.
Pro 20:12 The hearing ear and the seeing eye, the LORD has made them both.
Pro 20:13 Love not sleep, lest you come to poverty; open your eyes, and you will have plenty of bread.
Pro 20:14 "Bad, Bad," says the buyer, but when he goes away, then he boasts.
Pro 20:15 There is gold and abundance of costly stones, but the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel.
Pro 20:16 Take a man's garment when he has put up security for a stranger, and hold it in pledge when he puts
up security for foreigners.
Pro 20:17 Bread gained by deceit is sweet to a man, but afterward his mouth will be full of gravel.
Pro 20:18 Plans are established by counsel; by wise guidance wage war.
Pro 20:19 Whoever goes about slandering reveals secrets; therefore do not associate with a simple babbler.
Pro 20:20 If one curses his father or his mother, his lamp will be put out in utter darkness.
Pro 20:21 An inheritance gained hastily in the beginning will not be blessed in the end.
Pro 20:22 Do not say, "I will repay evil"; wait for the LORD, and he will deliver you.
Pro 20:23 Unequal weights are an abomination to the LORD, and false scales are not good.
Pro 20:24 A man's steps are from the LORD; how then can man understand his way?
Pro 20:25 It is a snare to say rashly, "It is holy," and to reflect only after making vows.
Pro 20:26 A wise king winnows the wicked and drives the wheel over them.
Pro 20:27 The spirit of man is the lamp of the LORD, searching all his innermost parts.
Pro 20:28 Steadfast love and faithfulness preserve the king, and by steadfast love his throne is upheld.
Pro 20:29 The glory of young men is their strength, but the splendor of old men is their gray hair.
Pro 20:30 Blows that wound cleanse away evil; strokes make clean the innermost parts.
Pro 21:1 The king's heart is a stream of water in the hand of the LORD; he turns it wherever he will.
Pro 21:2 Every way of a man is right in his own eyes, but the LORD weighs the heart.Pro 21:3 To do righteousness and justice is more acceptable to the LORD than sacrifice.
Pro 21:4 Haughty eyes and a proud heart, the lamp of the wicked, are sin.
Pro 21:5 The plans of the diligent lead surely to abundance, but everyone who is hasty comes only to poverty.
Pro 21:6 The getting of treasures by a lying tongue is a fleeting vapor and a snare of death.
Pro 21:7 The violence of the wicked will sweep them away, because they refuse to do what is just.
Pro 21:8 The way of the guilty is crooked, but the conduct of the pure is upright.
Pro 21:9 It is better to live in a corner of the housetop than in a house shared with a quarrelsome wife.
Pro 21:10 The soul of the wicked desires evil; his neighbor finds no mercy in his eyes.
Pro 21:11 When a scoffer is punished, the simple becomes wise; when a wise man is instructed, he gains
knowledge.
Pro 21:12 The Righteous One observes the house of the wicked; he throws the wicked down to ruin.
Pro 21:13 Whoever closes his ear to the cry of the poor will himself call out and not be answered.
Pro 21:14 A gift in secret averts anger, and a concealed bribe, strong wrath.
Pro 21:15 When justice is done, it is a joy to the righteous but terror to evildoers.
Pro 21:16 One who wanders from the way of good sense will rest in the assembly of the dead.
Pro 21:17 Whoever loves pleasure will be a poor man; he who loves wine and oil will not be rich.
Pro 21:18 The wicked is a ransom for the righteous, and the traitor for the upright.
Pro 21:19 It is better to live in a desert land than with a quarrelsome and fretful woman.
Pro 21:20 Precious treasure and oil are in a wise man's dwelling, but a foolish man devours it.
Pro 21:21 Whoever pursues righteousness and kindness will find life, righteousness, and honor.
Pro 21:22 A wise man scales the city of the mighty and brings down the stronghold in which they trust.
Pro 21:23 Whoever keeps his mouth and his tongue keeps himself out of trouble.
Pro 21:24 "Scoffer" is the name of the arrogant, haughty man who acts with arrogant pride.
Pro 21:25 The desire of the sluggard kills him, for his hands refuse to labor.
Pro 21:26 All day long he craves and craves, but the righteous gives and does not hold back.
Pro 21:27 The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination; how much more when he brings it with evil intent.
Pro 21:28 A false witness will perish, but the word of a man who hears will endure.
Pro 21:29 A wicked man puts on a bold face, but the upright gives thought to his ways.
Pro 21:30 No wisdom, no understanding, no counsel can avail against the LORD.
Pro 21:31 The horse is made ready for the day of battle, but the victory belongs to the LORD.
Pro 22:1 A good name is to be chosen rather than great riches, and favor is better than silver or gold.
Pro 22:2 The rich and the poor meet together; the LORD is the maker of them all.
Pro 22:3 The prudent sees danger and hides himself, but the simple go on and suffer for it.
Pro 22:4 The reward for humility and fear of the LORD is riches and honor and life.
Pro 22:5 Thorns and snares are in the way of the crooked; whoever guards his soul will keep far from them.
Pro 22:6 Train up a child in the way he should go; even when he is old he will not depart from it.
Pro 22:7 The rich rules over the poor, and the borrower is the slave of the lender.
Pro 22:8 Whoever sows injustice will reap calamity, and the rod of his fury will fail.
Pro 22:9 Whoever has a bountiful eye will be blessed, for he shares his bread with the poor.
Pro 22:10 Drive out a scoffer, and strife will go out, and quarreling and abuse will cease.
Pro 22:11 He who loves purity of heart, and whose speech is gracious, will have the king as his friend.
Pro 22:12 The eyes of the LORD keep watch over knowledge, but he overthrows the words of the traitor.
Pro 22:13 The sluggard says, "There is a lion outside! I shall be killed in the streets!"
Pro 22:14 The mouth of forbidden women is a deep pit; he with whom the LORD is angry will fall into it.
Pro 22:15 Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline drives it far from him.
Pro 22:16 Whoever oppresses the poor to increase his own wealth, or gives to the rich, will only come to
poverty.
Pro 22:17 Incline your ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply your heart to my knowledge,
Pro 22:18 for it will be pleasant if you keep them within you, if all of them are ready on your lips.
Pro 22:19 That your trust may be in the LORD, I have made them known to you today, even to you.
Pro 22:20 Have I not written for you thirty sayings of counsel and knowledge,
Pro 22:21 to make you know what is right and true, that you may give a true answer to those who sent you?
Pro 22:22 Do not rob the poor, because he is poor, or crush the afflicted at the gate,
Pro 22:23 for the LORD will plead their cause and rob of life those who rob them.
Pro 22:24 Make no friendship with a man given to anger, nor go with a wrathful man,
Pro 22:25 lest you learn his ways and entangle yourself in a snare.
Pro 22:26 Be not one of those who give pledges, who put up security for debts.
Pro 22:27 If you have nothing with which to pay, why should your bed be taken from under you?
Pro 22:28 Do not move the ancient landmark that your fathers have set.Pro 22:29 Do you see a man skillful in his work? He will stand before kings; he will not stand before obscure
men.
Pro 23:1 When you sit down to eat with a ruler, observe carefully what is before you,
Pro 23:2 and put a knife to your throat if you are given to appetite.
Pro 23:3 Do not desire his delicacies, for they are deceptive food.
Pro 23:4 Do not toil to acquire wealth; be discerning enough to desist.
Pro 23:5 When your eyes light on it, it is gone, for suddenly it sprouts wings, flying like an eagle toward heaven.
Pro 23:6 Do not eat the bread of a man who is stingy; do not desire his delicacies,
Pro 23:7 for he is like one who is inwardly calculating. "Eat and drink!" he says to you, but his heart is not with
you.
Pro 23:8 You will vomit up the morsels that you have eaten, and waste your pleasant words.
Pro 23:9 Do not speak in the hearing of a fool, for he will despise the good sense of your words.
Pro 23:10 Do not move an ancient landmark or enter the fields of the fatherless,
Pro 23:11 for their Redeemer is strong; he will plead their cause against you.
Pro 23:12 Apply your heart to instruction and your ear to words of knowledge.
Pro 23:13 Do not withhold discipline from a child; if you strike him with a rod, he will not die.
Pro 23:14 If you strike him with the rod, you will save his soul from Sheol.
Pro 23:15 My son, if your heart is wise, my heart too will be glad.
Pro 23:16 My inmost being will exult when your lips speak what is right.
Pro 23:17 Let not your heart envy sinners, but continue in the fear of the LORD all the day.
Pro 23:18 Surely there is a future, and your hope will not be cut off.
Pro 23:19 Hear, my son, and be wise, and direct your heart in the way.
Pro 23:20 Be not among drunkards or among gluttonous eaters of meat,
Pro 23:21 for the drunkard and the glutton will come to poverty, and slumber will clothe them with rags.
Pro 23:22 Listen to your father who gave you life, and do not despise your mother when she is old.
Pro 23:23 Buy truth, and do not sell it; buy wisdom, instruction, and understanding.
Pro 23:24 The father of the righteous will greatly rejoice; he who fathers a wise son will be glad in him.
Pro 23:25 Let your father and mother be glad; let her who bore you rejoice.
Pro 23:26 My son, give me your heart, and let your eyes observe my ways.
Pro 23:27 For a prostitute is a deep pit; an adulteress is a narrow well.
Pro 23:28 She lies in wait like a robber and increases the traitors among mankind.
Pro 23:29 Who has woe? Who has sorrow? Who has strife? Who has complaining? Who has wounds without
cause? Who has redness of eyes?
Pro 23:30 Those who tarry long over wine; those who go to try mixed wine.
Pro 23:31 Do not look at wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the cup and goes down smoothly.
Pro 23:32 In the end it bites like a serpent and stings like an adder.
Pro 23:33 Your eyes will see strange things, and your heart utter perverse things.
Pro 23:34 You will be like one who lies down in the midst of the sea, like one who lies on the top of a mast.
Pro 23:35 "They struck me," you will say, "but I was not hurt; they beat me, but I did not feel it. When shall I
awake? I must have another drink."
Pro 24:1 Be not envious of evil men,nor desire to be with them,
Pro 24:2 for their hearts devise violence, and their lips talk of trouble.
Pro 24:3 By wisdom a house is built, and by understanding it is established;
Pro 24:4 by knowledge the rooms are filled with all precious and pleasant riches.
Pro 24:5 A wise man is full of strength, and a man of knowledge enhances his might,
Pro 24:6 for by wise guidance you can wage your war, and in abundance of counselors there is victory.
Pro 24:7 Wisdom is too high for a fool; in the gate he does not open his mouth.
Pro 24:8 Whoever plans to do evil will be called a schemer.
Pro 24:9 The devising of folly is sin, and the scoffer is an abomination to mankind.
Pro 24:10 If you faint in the day of adversity, your strength is small.
Pro 24:11 Rescue those who are being taken away to death; hold back those who are stumbling to the
slaughter.
Pro 24:12 If you say, "Behold, we did not know this," does not he who weighs the heart perceive it? Does not he
who keeps watch over your soul know it, and will he not repay man according to his work?
Pro 24:13 My son, eat honey, for it is good, and the drippings of the honeycomb are sweet to your taste.
Pro 24:14 Know that wisdom is such to your soul; if you find it, there will be a future, and your hope will not be
cut off.
Pro 24:15 Lie not in wait as a wicked man against the dwelling of the righteous; do no violence to his home;
Pro 24:16 for the righteous falls seven times and rises again, but the wicked stumble in times of calamity.Pro 24:17 Do not rejoice when your enemy falls, and let not your heart be glad when he stumbles,
Pro 24:18 lest the LORD see it and be displeased, and turn away his anger from him.
Pro 24:19 Fret not yourself because of evildoers, and be not envious of the wicked,
Pro 24:20 for the evil man has no future; the lamp of the wicked will be put out.
Pro 24:21 My son, fear the LORD and the king, and do not join with those who do otherwise,
Pro 24:22 for disaster from them will rise suddenly, and who knows the ruin that will come from them both?
Pro 24:23 These also are sayings of the wise. Partiality in judging is not good.
Pro 24:24 Whoever says to the wicked, "You are in the right," will be cursed by peoples, abhorred by nations,
Pro 24:25 but those who rebuke the wicked will have delight, and a good blessing will come upon them.
Pro 24:26 Whoever gives an honest answer kisses the lips.
Pro 24:27 Prepare your work outside; get everything ready for yourself in the field, and after that build your
house.
Pro 24:28 Be not a witness against your neighbor without cause, and do not deceive with your lips.
Pro 24:29 Do not say, "I will do to him as he has done to me; I will pay the man back for what he has done."
Pro 24:30 I passed by the field of a sluggard, by the vineyard of a man lacking sense,
Pro 24:31 and behold, it was all overgrown with thorns; the ground was covered with nettles, and its stone wall
was broken down.
Pro 24:32 Then I saw and considered it; I looked and received instruction.
Pro 24:33 A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest,
Pro 24:34 and poverty will come upon you like a robber, and want like an armed man.
Pro 25:1 These also are proverbs of Solomon which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied.
Pro 25:2 It is the glory of God to conceal things, but the glory of kings is to search things out.
Pro 25:3 As the heavens for height, and the earth for depth, so the heart of kings is unsearchable.
Pro 25:4 Take away the dross from the silver, and the smith has material for a vessel;
Pro 25:5 take away the wicked from the presence of the king, and his throne will be established in
righteousness.
Pro 25:6 Do not put yourself forward in the king's presence or stand in the place of the great,
Pro 25:7 for it is better to be told, "Come up here," than to be put lower in the presence of a noble. What your
eyes have seen
Pro 25:8 do not hastily bring into court, for what will you do in the end, when your neighbor puts you to shame?
Pro 25:9 Argue your case with your neighbor himself, and do not reveal another's secret,
Pro 25:10 lest he who hears you bring shame upon you, and your ill repute have no end.
Pro 25:11 A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in a setting of silver.
Pro 25:12 Like a gold ring or an ornament of gold is a wise reprover to a listening ear.
Pro 25:13 Like the cold of snow in the time of harvest is a faithful messenger to those who send him; he
refreshes the soul of his masters.
Pro 25:14 Like clouds and wind without rain is a man who boasts of a gift he does not give.
Pro 25:15 With patience a ruler may be persuaded, and a soft tongue will break a bone.
Pro 25:16 If you have found honey, eat only enough for you, lest you have your fill of it and vomit it.
Pro 25:17 Let your foot be seldom in your neighbor's house, lest he have his fill of you and hate you.
Pro 25:18 A man who bears false witness against his neighbor is like a war club, or a sword, or a sharp arrow.
Pro 25:19 Trusting in a treacherous man in time of trouble is like a bad tooth or a foot that slips.
Pro 25:20 Whoever sings songs to a heavy heart is like one who takes off a garment on a cold day, and like
vinegar on soda.
Pro 25:21 If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat, and if he is thirsty, give him water to drink,
Pro 25:22 for you will heap burning coals on his head, and the LORD will reward you.
Pro 25:23 The north wind brings forth rain, and a backbiting tongue, angry looks.
Pro 25:24 It is better to live in a corner of the housetop than in a house shared with a quarrelsome wife.
Pro 25:25 Like cold water to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country.
Pro 25:26 Like a muddied spring or a polluted fountain is a righteous man who gives way before the wicked.
Pro 25:27 It is not good to eat much honey, nor is it glorious to seek one's own glory.
Pro 25:28 A man without self-control is like a city broken into and left without walls.
Pro 26:1 Like snow in summer or rain in harvest, so honor is not fitting for a fool.
Pro 26:2 Like a sparrow in its flitting, like a swallow in its flying, a curse that is causeless does not alight.
Pro 26:3 A whip for the horse, a bridle for the donkey, and a rod for the back of fools.
Pro 26:4 Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest you be like him yourself.
Pro 26:5 Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own eyes.
Pro 26:6 Whoever sends a message by the hand of a fool cuts off his own feet and drinks violence.
Pro 26:7 Like a lame man's legs, which hang useless, is a proverb in the mouth of fools.Pro 26:8 Like one who binds the stone in the sling is one who gives honor to a fool.
Pro 26:9 Like a thorn that goes up into the hand of a drunkard is a proverb in the mouth of fools.
Pro 26:10 Like an archer who wounds everybody is one who hires a passing fool or drunkard.
Pro 26:11 Like a dog that returns to his vomit is a fool who repeats his folly.
Pro 26:12 Do you see a man who is wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than for him.
Pro 26:13 The sluggard says, "There is a lion in the road! There is a lion in the streets!"
Pro 26:14 As a door turns on its hinges, so does a sluggard on his bed.
Pro 26:15 The sluggard buries his hand in the dish; it wears him out to bring it back to his mouth.
Pro 26:16 The sluggard is wiser in his own eyes than seven men who can answer sensibly.
Pro 26:17 Whoever meddles in a quarrel not his own is like one who takes a passing dog by the ears.
Pro 26:18 Like a madman who throws firebrands, arrows, and death
Pro 26:19 is the man who deceives his neighbor and says, "I am only joking!"
Pro 26:20 For lack of wood the fire goes out, and where there is no whisperer, quarreling ceases.
Pro 26:21 As charcoal to hot embers and wood to fire, so is a quarrelsome man for kindling strife.
Pro 26:22 The words of a whisperer are like delicious morsels; they go down into the inner parts of the body.
Pro 26:23 Like the glaze covering an earthen vessel are fervent lips with an evil heart.
Pro 26:24 Whoever hates disguises himself with his lips and harbors deceit in his heart;
Pro 26:25 when he speaks graciously, believe him not, for there are seven abominations in his heart;
Pro 26:26 though his hatred be covered with deception, his wickedness will be exposed in the assembly.
Pro 26:27 Whoever digs a pit will fall into it, and a stone will come back on him who starts it rolling.
Pro 26:28 A lying tongue hates its victims, and a flattering mouth works ruin.
Pro 27:1 Do not boast about tomorrow, for you do not know what a day may bring.
Pro 27:2 Let another praise you, and not your own mouth; a stranger, and not your own lips.
Pro 27:3 A stone is heavy, and sand is weighty, but a fool's provocation is heavier than both.
Pro 27:4 Wrath is cruel, anger is overwhelming, but who can stand before jealousy?
Pro 27:5 Better is open rebuke than hidden love.
Pro 27:6 Faithful are the wounds of a friend; profuse are the kisses of an enemy.
Pro 27:7 One who is full loathes honey, but to one who is hungry everything bitter is sweet.
Pro 27:8 Like a bird that strays from its nest is a man who strays from his home.
Pro 27:9 Oil and perfume make the heart glad, and the sweetness of a friend comes from his earnest counsel.
Pro 27:10 Do not forsake your friend and your father's friend, and do not go to your brother's house in the day of
your calamity. Better is a neighbor who is near than a brother who is far away.
Pro 27:11 Be wise, my son, and make my heart glad, that I may answer him who reproaches me.
Pro 27:12 The prudent sees danger and hides himself, but the simple go on and suffer for it.
Pro 27:13 Take a man's garment when he has put up security for a stranger, and hold it in pledge when he puts
up security for an adulteress.
Pro 27:14 Whoever blesses his neighbor with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, will be counted as
cursing.
Pro 27:15 A continual dripping on a rainy day and a quarrelsome wife are alike;
Pro 27:16 to restrain her is to restrain the wind or to grasp oil in one's right hand.
Pro 27:17 Iron sharpens iron, and one man sharpens another.
Pro 27:18 Whoever tends a fig tree will eat its fruit, and he who guards his master will be honored.
Pro 27:19 As in water face reflects face, so the heart of man reflects the man.
Pro 27:20 Sheol and Abaddon are never satisfied, and never satisfied are the eyes of man.
Pro 27:21 The crucible is for silver, and the furnace is for gold, and a man is tested by his praise.
Pro 27:22 Crush a fool in a mortar with a pestle along with crushed grain, yet his folly will not depart from him.
Pro 27:23 Know well the condition of your flocks, and give attention to your herds,
Pro 27:24 for riches do not last forever; and does a crown endure to all generations?
Pro 27:25 When the grass is gone and the new growth appears and the vegetation of the mountains is
gathered,
Pro 27:26 the lambs will provide your clothing, and the goats the price of a field.
Pro 27:27 There will be enough goats' milk for your food, for the food of your household and maintenance for
your girls.
Pro 28:1 The wicked flee when no one pursues, but the righteous are bold as a lion.
Pro 28:2 When a land transgresses, it has many rulers, but with a man of understanding and knowledge, its
stability will long continue.
Pro 28:3 A poor man who oppresses the poor is a beating rain that leaves no food.
Pro 28:4 Those who forsake the law praise the wicked, but those who keep the law strive against them.
Pro 28:5 Evil men do not understand justice, but those who seek the LORD understand it completely.Pro 28:6 Better is a poor man who walks in his integrity than a rich man who is crooked in his ways.
Pro 28:7 The one who keeps the law is a son with understanding, but a companion of gluttons shames his
father.
Pro 28:8 Whoever multiplies his wealth by interest and profit gathers it for him who is generous to the poor.
Pro 28:9 If one turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer is an abomination.
Pro 28:10 Whoever misleads the upright into an evil way will fall into his own pit, but the blameless will have a
goodly inheritance.
Pro 28:11 A rich man is wise in his own eyes, but a poor man who has understanding will find him out.
Pro 28:12 When the righteous triumph, there is great glory, but when the wicked rise, people hide themselves.
Pro 28:13 Whoever conceals his transgressions will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes them will
obtain mercy.
Pro 28:14 Blessed is the one who fears the LORD always, but whoever hardens his heart will fall into calamity.
Pro 28:15 Like a roaring lion or a charging bear is a wicked ruler over a poor people.
Pro 28:16 A ruler who lacks understanding is a cruel oppressor, but he who hates unjust gain will prolong his
days.
Pro 28:17 If one is burdened with the blood of another, he will be a fugitive until death; let no one help him.
Pro 28:18 Whoever walks in integrity will be delivered, but he who is crooked in his ways will suddenly fall.
Pro 28:19 Whoever works his land will have plenty of bread, but he who follows worthless pursuits will have
plenty of poverty.
Pro 28:20 A faithful man will abound with blessings, but whoever hastens to be rich will not go unpunished.
Pro 28:21 To show partiality is not good, but for a piece of bread a man will do wrong.
Pro 28:22 A stingy man hastens after wealth and does not know that poverty will come upon him.
Pro 28:23 Whoever rebukes a man will afterward find more favor than he who flatters with his tongue.
Pro 28:24 Whoever robs his father or his mother and says, "That is no transgression," is a companion to a man
who destroys.
Pro 28:25 A greedy man stirs up strife, but the one who trusts in the LORD will be enriched.
Pro 28:26 Whoever trusts in his own mind is a fool, but he who walks in wisdom will be delivered.
Pro 28:27 Whoever gives to the poor will not want, but he who hides his eyes will get many a curse.
Pro 28:28 When the wicked rise, people hide themselves, but when they perish, the righteous increase.
Pro 29:1 He who is often reproved, yet stiffens his neck, will suddenly be broken beyond healing.
Pro 29:2 When the righteous increase, the people rejoice, but when the wicked rule, the people groan.
Pro 29:3 He who loves wisdom makes his father glad, but a companion of prostitutes squanders his wealth.
Pro 29:4 By justice a king builds up the land, but he who exacts gifts tears it down.
Pro 29:5 A man who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his feet.
Pro 29:6 An evil man is ensnared in his transgression, but a righteous man sings and rejoices.
Pro 29:7 A righteous man knows the rights of the poor; a wicked man does not understand such knowledge.
Pro 29:8 Scoffers set a city aflame, but the wise turn away wrath.
Pro 29:9 If a wise man has an argument with a fool, the fool only rages and laughs, and there is no quiet.
Pro 29:10 Bloodthirsty men hate one who is blameless and seek the life of the upright.
Pro 29:11 A fool gives full vent to his spirit, but a wise man quietly holds it back.
Pro 29:12 If a ruler listens to falsehood, all his officials will be wicked.
Pro 29:13 The poor man and the oppressor meet together; the LORD gives light to the eyes of both.
Pro 29:14 If a king faithfully judges the poor, his throne will be established forever.
Pro 29:15 The rod and reproof give wisdom, but a child left to himself brings shame to his mother.
Pro 29:16 When the wicked increase, transgression increases, but the righteous will look upon their downfall.
Pro 29:17 Discipline your son, and he will give you rest; he will give delight to your heart.
Pro 29:18 Where there is no prophetic vision the people cast off restraint, but blessed is he who keeps the law.
Pro 29:19 By mere words a servant is not disciplined, for though he understands, he will not respond.
Pro 29:20 Do you see a man who is hasty in his words? There is more hope for a fool than for him.
Pro 29:21 Whoever pampers his servant from childhood will in the end find him his heir.
Pro 29:22 A man of wrath stirs up strife, and one given to anger causes much transgression.
Pro 29:23 One's pride will bring him low, but he who is lowly in spirit will obtain honor.
Pro 29:24 The partner of a thief hates his own life; he hears the curse, but discloses nothing.
Pro 29:25 The fear of man lays a snare, but whoever trusts in the LORD is safe.
Pro 29:26 Many seek the face of a ruler, but it is from the LORD that a man gets justice.
Pro 29:27 An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous, but one whose way is straight is an abomination to
the wicked.
Pro 30:1 The words of Agur son of Jakeh. The oracle. The man declares, I am weary, O God; I am weary, O
God, and worn out.Pro 30:2 Surely I am too stupid to be a man. I have not the understanding of a man.
Pro 30:3 I have not learned wisdom, nor have I knowledge of the Holy One.
Pro 30:4 Who has ascended to heaven and come down? Who has gathered the wind in his fists? Who has
wrapped up the waters in a garment? Who has established all the ends of the earth? What is his name, and
what is his son's name? Surely you know!
Pro 30:5 Every word of God proves true; he is a shield to those who take refuge in him.
Pro 30:6 Do not add to his words, lest he rebuke you and you be found a liar.
Pro 30:7 Two things I ask of you; deny them not to me before I die:
Pro 30:8 Remove far from me falsehood and lying; give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with the food
that is needful for me,
Pro 30:9 lest I be full and deny you and say, "Who is the LORD?" or lest I be poor and steal and profane the
name of my God.
Pro 30:10 Do not slander a servant to his master, lest he curse you and you be held guilty.
Pro 30:11 There are those who curse their fathers and do not bless their mothers.
Pro 30:12 There are those who are clean in their own eyes but are not washed of their filth.
Pro 30:13 There are those- how lofty are their eyes, how high their eyelids lift!
Pro 30:14 There are those whose teeth are swords, whose fangs are knives, to devour the poor from off the
earth, the needy from among mankind.
Pro 30:15 The leech has two daughters; "Give" and "Give," they cry. Three things are never satisfied; four never
say, "Enough":
Pro 30:16 Sheol, the barren womb, the land never satisfied with water, and the fire that never says, "Enough."
Pro 30:17 The eye that mocks a father and scorns to obey a mother will be picked out by the ravens of the
valley and eaten by the vultures.
Pro 30:18 Three things are too wonderful for me; four I do not understand:
Pro 30:19 the way of an eagle in the sky, the way of a serpent on a rock, the way of a ship on the high seas,
and the way of a man with a virgin.
Pro 30:20 This is the way of an adulteress: she eats and wipes her mouth and says, "I have done no wrong."
Pro 30:21 Under three things the earth trembles; under four it cannot bear up:
Pro 30:22 a slave when he becomes king, and a fool when he is filled with food;
Pro 30:23 an unloved woman when she gets a husband, and a maidservant when she displaces her mistress.
Pro 30:24 Four things on earth are small, but they are exceedingly wise:
Pro 30:25 the ants are a people not strong, yet they provide their food in the summer;
Pro 30:26 the rock badgers are a people not mighty, yet they make their homes in the cliffs;
Pro 30:27 the locusts have no king, yet all of them march in rank;
Pro 30:28 the lizard you can take in your hands, yet it is in kings' palaces.
Pro 30:29 Three things are stately in their tread; four are stately in their stride:
Pro 30:30 the lion, which is mightiest among beasts and does not turn back before any;
Pro 30:31 the strutting rooster, the he-goat, and a king whose army is with him.
Pro 30:32 If you have been foolish, exalting yourself, or if you have been devising evil, put your hand on your
mouth.
Pro 30:33 For pressing milk produces curds, pressing the nose produces blood, and pressing anger produces
strife.
Pro 31:1 The words of King Lemuel. An oracle that his mother taught him:
Pro 31:2 What are you doing, my son? What are you doing, son of my womb? What are you doing, son of my
vows?
Pro 31:3 Do not give your strength to women, your ways to those who destroy kings.
Pro 31:4 It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine, or for rulers to take strong drink,
Pro 31:5 lest they drink and forget what has been decreed and pervert the rights of all the afflicted.
Pro 31:6 Give strong drink to the one who is perishing, and wine to those in bitter distress;
Pro 31:7 let them drink and forget their poverty and remember their misery no more.
Pro 31:8 Open your mouth for the mute, for the rights of all who are destitute.
Pro 31:9 Open your mouth, judge righteously, defend the rights of the poor and needy.
Pro 31:10 An excellent wife who can find? She is far more precious than jewels.
Pro 31:11 The heart of her husband trusts in her, and he will have no lack of gain.
Pro 31:12 She does him good, and not harm, all the days of her life.
Pro 31:13 She seeks wool and flax, and works with willing hands.
Pro 31:14 She is like the ships of the merchant; she brings her food from afar.
Pro 31:15 She rises while it is yet night and provides food for her household and portions for her maidens.
Pro 31:16 She considers a field and buys it; with the fruit of her hands she plants a vineyard.Pro 31:17 She dresses herself with strength and makes her arms strong.
Pro 31:18 She perceives that her merchandise is profitable. Her lamp does not go out at night.
Pro 31:19 She puts her hands to the distaff, and her hands hold the spindle.
Pro 31:20 She opens her hand to the poor and reaches out her hands to the needy.
Pro 31:21 She is not afraid of snow for her household, for all her household are clothed in scarlet.
Pro 31:22 She makes bed coverings for herself; her clothing is fine linen and purple.
Pro 31:23 Her husband is known in the gates when he sits among the elders of the land.
Pro 31:24 She makes linen garments and sells them; she delivers sashes to the merchant.
Pro 31:25 Strength and dignity are her clothing, and she laughs at the time to come.
Pro 31:26 She opens her mouth with wisdom, and the teaching of kindness is on her tongue.
Pro 31:27 She looks well to the ways of her household and does not eat the bread of idleness.
Pro 31:28 Her children rise up and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praises her:
Pro 31:29 "Many women have done excellently, but you surpass them all."
Pro 31:30 Charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain, but a woman who fears the LORD is to be praised.
Pro 31:31 Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her works praise her in the gates.
Ecc 1:1 The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem.
Ecc 1:2 Vanity of vanities, says the Preacher, vanity of vanities! All is vanity.
Ecc 1:3 What does man gain by all the toil at which he toils under the sun?
Ecc 1:4 A generation goes, and a generation comes, but the earth remains forever.
Ecc 1:5 The sun rises, and the sun goes down, and hastens to the place where it rises.
Ecc 1:6 The wind blows to the south and goes around to the north; around and around goes the wind, and on its
circuits the wind returns.
Ecc 1:7 All streams run to the sea, but the sea is not full; to the place where the streams flow, there they flow
again.
Ecc 1:8 All things are full of weariness; a man cannot utter it; the eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear
filled with hearing.
Ecc 1:9 What has been is what will be, and what has been done is what will be done, and there is nothing new
under the sun.
Ecc 1:10 Is there a thing of which it is said, "See, this is new"? It has been already in the ages before us.
Ecc 1:11 There is no remembrance of former things, nor will there be any remembrance of later things yet to be
among those who come after.
Ecc 1:12 I the Preacher have been king over Israel in Jerusalem.
Ecc 1:13 And I applied my heart to seek and to search out by wisdom all that is done under heaven. It is an
unhappy business that God has given to the children of man to be busy with.
Ecc 1:14 I have seen everything that is done under the sun, and behold, all is vanity and a striving after wind.
Ecc 1:15 What is crooked cannot be made straight, and what is lacking cannot be counted.
Ecc 1:16 I said in my heart, "I have acquired great wisdom, surpassing all who were over Jerusalem before me,
and my heart has had great experience of wisdom and knowledge."
Ecc 1:17 And I applied my heart to know wisdom and to know madness and folly. I perceived that this also is but
a striving after wind.
Ecc 1:18 For in much wisdom is much vexation, and he who increases knowledge increases sorrow.
Ecc 2:1 I said in my heart, "Come now, I will test you with pleasure; enjoy yourself." But behold, this also was
vanity.
Ecc 2:2 I said of laughter, "It is mad," and of pleasure, "What use is it?"
Ecc 2:3 I searched with my heart how to cheer my body with wine- my heart still guiding me with wisdom- and
how to lay hold on folly, till I might see what was good for the children of man to do under heaven during the few
days of their life.
Ecc 2:4 I made great works. I built houses and planted vineyards for myself.
Ecc 2:5 I made myself gardens and parks, and planted in them all kinds of fruit trees.
Ecc 2:6 I made myself pools from which to water the forest of growing trees.
Ecc 2:7 I bought male and female slaves, and had slaves who were born in my house. I had also great
possessions of herds and flocks, more than any who had been before me in Jerusalem.
Ecc 2:8 I also gathered for myself silver and gold and the treasure of kings and provinces. I got singers, both
men and women, and many concubines, the delight of the children of man.
Ecc 2:9 So I became great and surpassed all who were before me in Jerusalem. Also my wisdom remained with
me.
Ecc 2:10 And whatever my eyes desired I did not keep from them. I kept my heart from no pleasure, for my
heart found pleasure in all my toil, and this was my reward for all my toil.
Ecc 2:11 Then I considered all that my hands had done and the toil I had expended in doing it, and behold, allwas vanity and a striving after wind, and there was nothing to be gained under the sun.
Ecc 2:12 So I turned to consider wisdom and madness and folly. For what can the man do who comes after the
king? Only what has already been done.
Ecc 2:13 Then I saw that there is more gain in wisdom than in folly, as there is more gain in light than in
darkness.
Ecc 2:14 The wise person has his eyes in his head, but the fool walks in darkness. And yet I perceived that the
same event happens to all of them.
Ecc 2:15 Then I said in my heart, "What happens to the fool will happen to me also. Why then have I been so
very wise?" And I said in my heart that this also is vanity.
Ecc 2:16 For of the wise as of the fool there is no enduring remembrance, seeing that in the days to come all
will have been long forgotten. How the wise dies just like the fool!
Ecc 2:17 So I hated life, because what is done under the sun was grievous to me, for all is vanity and a striving
after wind.
Ecc 2:18 I hated all my toil in which I toil under the sun, seeing that I must leave it to the man who will come
after me,
Ecc 2:19 and who knows whether he will be wise or a fool? Yet he will be master of all for which I toiled and
used my wisdom under the sun. This also is vanity.
Ecc 2:20 So I turned about and gave my heart up to despair over all the toil of my labors under the sun,
Ecc 2:21 because sometimes a person who has toiled with wisdom and knowledge and skill must leave
everything to be enjoyed by someone who did not toil for it. This also is vanity and a great evil.
Ecc 2:22 What has a man from all the toil and striving of heart with which he toils beneath the sun?
Ecc 2:23 For all his days are full of sorrow, and his work is a vexation. Even in the night his heart does not rest.
This also is vanity.
Ecc 2:24 There is nothing better for a person than that he should eat and drink and find enjoyment in his toil.
This also, I saw, is from the hand of God,
Ecc 2:25 for apart from him who can eat or who can have enjoyment?
Ecc 2:26 For to the one who pleases him God has given wisdom and knowledge and joy, but to the sinner he
has given the business of gathering and collecting, only to give to one who pleases God. This also is vanity and
a striving after wind.
Ecc 3:1 For everything there is a season, and a time for every matter under heaven:
Ecc 3:2 a time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up what is planted;
Ecc 3:3 a time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up;
Ecc 3:4 a time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance;
Ecc 3:5 a time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to
refrain from embracing;
Ecc 3:6 a time to seek, and a time to lose; a time to keep, and a time to cast away;
Ecc 3:7 a time to tear, and a time to sew; a time to keep silence, and a time to speak;
Ecc 3:8 a time to love, and a time to hate; a time for war, and a time for peace.
Ecc 3:9 What gain has the worker from his toil?
Ecc 3:10 I have seen the business that God has given to the children of man to be busy with.
Ecc 3:11 He has made everything beautiful in its time. Also, he has put eternity into man's heart, yet so that he
cannot find out what God has done from the beginning to the end.
Ecc 3:12 I perceived that there is nothing better for them than to be joyful and to do good as long as they live;
Ecc 3:13 also that everyone should eat and drink and take pleasure in all his toil- this is God's gift to man.
Ecc 3:14 I perceived that whatever God does endures forever; nothing can be added to it, nor anything taken
from it. God has done it, so that people fear before him.
Ecc 3:15 That which is, already has been; that which is to be, already has been; and God seeks what has been
driven away.
Ecc 3:16 Moreover, I saw under the sun that in the place of justice, even there was wickedness, and in the
place of righteousness, even there was wickedness.
Ecc 3:17 I said in my heart, God will judge the righteous and the wicked, for there is a time for every matter and
for every work.
Ecc 3:18 I said in my heart with regard to the children of man that God is testing them that they may see that
they themselves are but beasts.
Ecc 3:19 For what happens to the children of man and what happens to the beasts is the same; as one dies, so
dies the other. They all have the same breath, and man has no advantage over the beasts, for all is vanity.
Ecc 3:20 All go to one place. All are from the dust, and to dust all return.
Ecc 3:21 Who knows whether the spirit of man goes upward and the spirit of the beast goes down into the
earth?Ecc 3:22 So I saw that there is nothing better than that a man should rejoice in his work, for that is his lot. Who
can bring him to see what will be after him?
Ecc 4:1 Again I saw all the oppressions that are done under the sun. And behold, the tears of the oppressed,
and they had no one to comfort them! On the side of their oppressors there was power, and there was no one to
comfort them.
Ecc 4:2 And I thought the dead who are already dead more fortunate than the living who are still alive.
Ecc 4:3 But better than both is he who has not yet been and has not seen the evil deeds that are done under
the sun.
Ecc 4:4 Then I saw that all toil and all skill in work come from a man's envy of his neighbor. This also is vanity
and a striving after wind.
Ecc 4:5 The fool folds his hands and eats his own flesh.
Ecc 4:6 Better is a handful of quietness than two hands full of toil and a striving after wind.
Ecc 4:7 Again, I saw vanity under the sun:
Ecc 4:8 one person who has no other, either son or brother, yet there is no end to all his toil, and his eyes are
never satisfied with riches, so that he never asks, "For whom am I toiling and depriving myself of pleasure?" This
also is vanity and an unhappy business.
Ecc 4:9 Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their toil.
Ecc 4:10 For if they fall, one will lift up his fellow. But woe to him who is alone when he falls and has not another
to lift him up!
Ecc 4:11 Again, if two lie together, they keep warm, but how can one keep warm alone?
Ecc 4:12 And though a man might prevail against one who is alone, two will withstand him- a threefold cord is
not quickly broken.
Ecc 4:13 Better was a poor and wise youth than an old and foolish king who no longer knew how to take advice.
Ecc 4:14 For he went from prison to the throne, though in his own kingdom he had been born poor.
Ecc 4:15 I saw all the living who move about under the sun, along with that youth who was to stand in the king's
place.
Ecc 4:16 There was no end of all the people, all of whom he led. Yet those who come later will not rejoice in
him. Surely this also is vanity and a striving after wind.
Ecc 5:1 Guard your steps when you go to the house of God. To draw near to listen is better than to offer the
sacrifice of fools, for they do not know that they are doing evil.
Ecc 5:2 Be not rash with your mouth, nor let your heart be hasty to utter a word before God, for God is in
heaven and you are on earth. Therefore let your words be few.
Ecc 5:3 For a dream comes with much business, and a fool's voice with many words.
Ecc 5:4 When you vow a vow to God, do not delay paying it, for he has no plea sure in fools. Pay what you vow.
Ecc 5:5 It is better that you should not vow than that you should vow and not pay.
Ecc 5:6 Let not your mouth lead you into sin, and do not say before the messenger that it was a mistake. Why
should God be angry at your voice and destroy the work of your hands?
Ecc 5:7 For when dreams increase and words grow many, there is vanity; but God is the one you must fear.
Ecc 5:8 If you see in a province the oppression of the poor and the violation of justice and righteousness, do not
be amazed at the matter, for the high official is watched by a higher, and there are yet higher ones over them.
Ecc 5:9 But this is gain for a land in every way: a king committed to cultivated fields.
Ecc 5:10 He who loves money will not be satisfied with money, nor he who loves wealth with his income; this
also is vanity.
Ecc 5:11 When goods increase, they increase who eat them, and what advantage has their owner but to see
them with his eyes?
Ecc 5:12 Sweet is the sleep of a laborer, whether he eats little or much, but the full stomach of the rich will not
let him sleep.
Ecc 5:13 There is a grievous evil that I have seen under the sun: riches were kept by their owner to his hurt,
Ecc 5:14 and those riches were lost in a bad venture. And he is father of a son, but he has nothing in his hand.
Ecc 5:15 As he came from his mother's womb he shall go again, naked as he came, and shall take nothing for
his toil that he may carry away in his hand.
Ecc 5:16 This also is a grievous evil: just as he came, so shall he go, and what gain is there to him who toils for
the wind?
Ecc 5:17 Moreover, all his days he eats in darkness in much vexation and sickness and anger.
Ecc 5:18 Behold, what I have seen to be good and fitting is to eat and drink and find enjoyment in all the toil with
which one toils under the sun the few days of his life that God has given him, for this is his lot.
Ecc 5:19 Everyone also to whom God has given wealth and possessions and power to enjoy them, and to
accept his lot and rejoice in his toil- this is the gift of God.
Ecc 5:20 For he will not much remember the days of his life because God keeps him occupied with joy in hisheart.
Ecc 6:1 There is an evil that I have seen under the sun, and it lies heavy on mankind:
Ecc 6:2 a man to whom God gives wealth, possessions, and honor, so that he lacks nothing of all that he
desires, yet God does not give him power to enjoy them, but a stranger enjoys them. This is vanity; it is a
grievous evil.
Ecc 6:3 If a man fathers a hundred children and lives many years, so that the days of his years are many, but
his soul is not satisfied with life's good things, and he also has no burial, I say that a stillborn child is better off
than he.
Ecc 6:4 For it comes in vanity and goes in darkness, and in darkness its name is covered.
Ecc 6:5 Moreover, it has not seen the sun or known anything, yet it finds rest rather than he.
Ecc 6:6 Even though he should live a thousand years twice over, yet enjoy no good- do not all go to the one
place?
Ecc 6:7 All the toil of man is for his mouth, yet his appetite is not satisfied.
Ecc 6:8 For what advantage has the wise man over the fool? And what does the poor man have who knows
how to conduct himself before the living?
Ecc 6:9 Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the appetite: this also is vanity and a striving after
wind.
Ecc 6:10 Whatever has come to be has already been named, and it is known what man is, and that he is not
able to dispute with one stronger than he.
Ecc 6:11 The more words, the more vanity, and what is the advantage to man?
Ecc 6:12 For who knows what is good for man while he lives the few days of his vain life, which he passes like a
shadow? For who can tell man what will be after him under the sun?
Ecc 7:1 A good name is better than precious ointment, and the day of death than the day of birth.
Ecc 7:2 It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting, for this is the end of all
mankind, and the living will lay it to heart.
Ecc 7:3 Sorrow is better than laughter, for by sadness of face the heart is made glad.
Ecc 7:4 The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.
Ecc 7:5 It is better for a man to hear the rebuke of the wise than to hear the song of fools.
Ecc 7:6 For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fools; this also is vanity.
Ecc 7:7 Surely oppression drives the wise into madness, and a bribe corrupts the heart.
Ecc 7:8 Better is the end of a thing than its beginning, and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.
Ecc 7:9 Be not quick in your spirit to become angry, for anger lodges in the bosom of fools.
Ecc 7:10 Say not, "Why were the former days better than these?" For it is not from wisdom that you ask this.
Ecc 7:11 Wisdom is good with an inheritance, an advantage to those who see the sun.
Ecc 7:12 For the protection of wisdom is like the protection of money, and the advantage of knowledge is that
wisdom preserves the life of him who has it.
Ecc 7:13 Consider the work of God: who can make straight what he has made crooked?
Ecc 7:14 In the day of prosperity be joyful, and in the day of adversity consider: God has made the one as well
as the other, so that man may not find out anything that will be after him.
Ecc 7:15 In my vain life I have seen everything. There is a righteous man who perishes in his righteousness,
and there is a wicked man who prolongs his life in his evildoing.
Ecc 7:16 Be not overly righ teous, and do not make yourself too wise. Why should you destroy yourself?
Ecc 7:17 Be not overly wicked, neither be a fool. Why should you die before your time?
Ecc 7:18 It is good that you should take hold of this, and from that withhold not your hand, for the one who fears
God shall come out from both of them.
Ecc 7:19 Wisdom gives strength to the wise man more than ten rulers who are in a city.
Ecc 7:20 Surely there is not a righteous man on earth who does good and never sins.
Ecc 7:21 Do not take to heart all the things that people say, lest you hear your servant cursing you.
Ecc 7:22 Your heart knows that many times you have yourself cursed others.
Ecc 7:23 All this I have tested by wisdom. I said, "I will be wise," but it was far from me.
Ecc 7:24 That which has been is far off, and deep, very deep; who can find it out?
Ecc 7:25 I turned my heart to know and to search out and to seek wisdom and the scheme of things, and to
know the wickedness of folly and the foolishness that is madness.
Ecc 7:26 And I find something more bitter than death: the woman whose heart is snares and nets, and whose
hands are fetters. He who pleases God escapes her, but the sinner is taken by her.
Ecc 7:27 Behold, this is what I found, says the Preacher, while adding one thing to another to find the scheme of
thingsEcc 7:28 which my soul has sought repeatedly, but I have not found. One man among a thousand I found, but a
woman among all these I have not found.Ecc 7:29 See, this alone I found, that God made man upright, but they have sought out many schemes.
Ecc 8:1 Who is like the wise?And who knows the interpretation of a thing? A man's wisdom makes his face
shine, and the hardness of his face is changed.
Ecc 8:2 I say: Keep the king's command, because of God's oath to him.
Ecc 8:3 Be not hasty to go from his presence. Do not take your stand in an evil cause, for he does whatever he
pleases.
Ecc 8:4 For the word of the king is supreme, and who may say to him, "What are you doing?"
Ecc 8:5 Whoever keeps a command will know no evil thing, and the wise heart will know the proper time and the
just way.
Ecc 8:6 For there is a time and a way for everything, although man's trouble lies heavy on him.
Ecc 8:7 For he does not know what is to be, for who can tell him how it will be?
Ecc 8:8 No man has power to retain the spirit, or power over the day of death. There is no discharge from war,
nor will wickedness deliver those who are given to it.
Ecc 8:9 All this I observed while applying my heart to all that is done under the sun, when man had power over
man to his hurt.
Ecc 8:10 Then I saw the wicked buried. They used to go in and out of the holy place and were praised in the city
where they had done such things. This also is vanity.
Ecc 8:11 Because the sentence against an evil deed is not executed speedily, the heart of the children of man is
fully set to do evil.
Ecc 8:12 Though a sinner does evil a hundred times and prolongs his life, yet I know that it will be well with
those who fear God, because they fear before him.
Ecc 8:13 But it will not be well with the wicked, neither will he prolong his days like a shadow, because he does
not fear before God.
Ecc 8:14 There is a vanity that takes place on earth, that there are righteous people to whom it happens
according to the deeds of the wicked, and there are wicked people to whom it happens according to the deeds of
the righteous. I said that this also is vanity.
Ecc 8:15 And I commend joy, for man has no good thing under the sun but to eat and drink and be joyful, for
this will go with him in his toil through the days of his life that God has given him under the sun.
Ecc 8:16 When I applied my heart to know wisdom, and to see the business that is done on earth, how neither
day nor night do one's eyes see sleep,
Ecc 8:17 then I saw all the work of God, that man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun. However
much man may toil in seeking, he will not find it out. Even though a wise man claims to know, he cannot find it
out.
Ecc 9:1 But all this I laid to heart, examining it all, how the righteous and the wise and their deeds are in the
hand of God. Whether it is love or hate, man does not know; both are before him.
Ecc 9:2 It is the same for all, since the same event happens to the righteous and the wicked, to the good and
the evil, to the clean and the unclean, to him who sacrifices and him who does not sacrifice. As is the good, so is
the sinner, and he who swears is as he who shuns an oath.
Ecc 9:3 This is an evil in all that is done under the sun, that the same event happens to all. Also, the hearts of
the children of man are full of evil, and madness is in their hearts while they live, and after that they go to the
dead.
Ecc 9:4 But he who is joined with all the living has hope, for a living dog is better than a dead lion.
Ecc 9:5 For the living know that they will die, but the dead know nothing, and they have no more reward, for the
memory of them is forgotten.
Ecc 9:6 Their love and their hate and their envy have already perished, and forever they have no more share in
all that is done under the sun.
Ecc 9:7 Go, eat your bread in joy, and drink your wine with a merry heart, for God has already approved what
you do.
Ecc 9:8 Let your garments be always white. Let not oil be lacking on your head.
Ecc 9:9 Enjoy life with the wife whom you love, all the days of your vain life that he has given you under the sun,
because that is your portion in life and in your toil at which you toil under the sun.
Ecc 9:10 Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with your might, for there is no work or thought or knowledge or
wisdom in Sheol, to which you are going.
Ecc 9:11 Again I saw that under the sun the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, nor bread to the
wise, nor riches to the intelligent, nor favor to those with knowledge, but time and chance happen to them all.
Ecc 9:12 For man does not know his time. Like fish that are taken in an evil net, and like birds that are caught in
a snare, so the children of man are snared at an evil time, when it suddenly falls upon them.
Ecc 9:13 I have also seen this example of wisdom under the sun, and it seemed great to me.
Ecc 9:14 There was a little city with few men in it, and a great king came against it and besieged it, buildinggreat siegeworks against it.
Ecc 9:15 But there was found in it a poor, wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city. Yet no one
remembered that poor man.
Ecc 9:16 But I say that wisdom is better than might, though the poor man's wisdom is despised and his words
are not heard.
Ecc 9:17 The words of the wise heard in quiet are better than the shouting of a ruler among fools.
Ecc 9:18 Wisdom is better than weapons of war, but one sinner destroys much good.
Ecc 10:1 Dead flies make the perfumer's ointment give off a stench; so a little folly outweighs wisdom and
honor.
Ecc 10:2 A wise man's heart inclines him to the right, but a fool's heart to the left.
Ecc 10:3 Even when the fool walks on the road, he lacks sense, and he says to everyone that he is a fool.
Ecc 10:4 If the anger of the ruler rises against you, do not leave your place, for calmness will lay great offenses
to rest.
Ecc 10:5 There is an evil that I have seen under the sun, as it were an error proceeding from the ruler:
Ecc 10:6 folly is set in many high places, and the rich sit in a low place.
Ecc 10:7 I have seen slaves on horses, and princes walking on the ground like slaves.
Ecc 10:8 He who digs a pit will fall into it, and a serpent will bite him who breaks through a wall.
Ecc 10:9 He who quarries stones is hurt by them, and he who splits logs is endangered by them.
Ecc 10:10 If the iron is blunt, and one does not sharpen the edge, he must use more strength, but wisdom helps
one to succeed.
Ecc 10:11 If the serpent bites before it is charmed, there is no advantage to the charmer.
Ecc 10:12 The words of a wise man's mouth win him favor, but the lips of a fool consume him.
Ecc 10:13 The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness, and the end of his talk is evil madness.
Ecc 10:14 A fool multiplies words, though no man knows what is to be, and who can tell him what will be after
him?
Ecc 10:15 The toil of a fool wearies him, for he does not know the way to the city.
Ecc 10:16 Woe to you, O land, when your king is a child, and your princes feast in the morning!
Ecc 10:17 Happy are you, O land, when your king is the son of the nobility, and your princes feast at the proper
time, for strength, and not for drunkenness!
Ecc 10:18 Through sloth the roof sinks in, and through indolence the house leaks.
Ecc 10:19 Bread is made for laughter, and wine gladdens life, and money answers everything.
Ecc 10:20 Even in your thought, do not curse the king, nor in your bedroom curse the rich, for a bird of the air
will carry your voice, or some winged creature tell the matter.
Ecc 11:1 Cast your bread upon the waters, for you will find it after many days.
Ecc 11:2 Give a portion to seven, or even to eight, for you know not what disaster may happen on earth.
Ecc 11:3 If the clouds are full of rain, they empty themselves on the earth, and if a tree falls to the south or to
the north, in the place where the tree falls, there it will lie.
Ecc 11:4 He who observes the wind will not sow, and he who regards the clouds will not reap.
Ecc 11:5 As you do not know the way the spirit comes to the bones in the womb of a woman with child, so you
do not know the work of God who makes everything.
Ecc 11:6 In the morning sow your seed, and at evening withhold not your hand, for you do not know which will
prosper, this or that, or whether both alike will be good.
Ecc 11:7 Light is sweet, and it is pleasant for the eyes to see the sun.
Ecc 11:8 So if a person lives many years, let him rejoice in them all; but let him remember that the days of
darkness will be many. All that comes is vanity.
Ecc 11:9 Rejoice, O young man, in your youth, and let your heart cheer you in the days of your youth. Walk in
the ways of your heart and the sight of your eyes. But know that for all these things God will bring you into
judgment.
Ecc 11:10 Remove vexation from your heart, and put away pain from your body, for youth and the dawn of life
are vanity.
Ecc 12:1 Remember also your Creator in the days of your youth, before the evil days come and the years draw
near of which you will say, "I have no pleasure in them";
Ecc 12:2 before the sun and the light and the moon and the stars are darkened and the clouds return after the
rain,
Ecc 12:3 in the day when the keepers of the house tremble, and the strong men are bent, and the grinders
cease because they are few, and those who look through the windows are dimmed,
Ecc 12:4 and the doors on the street are shut- when the sound of the grinding is low, and one rises up at the
sound of a bird, and all the daughters of song are brought lowEcc 12:5 they are afraid also of what is high, and terrors are in the way; the almond tree blossoms, thegrasshopper drags itself along, and desire fails, because man is going to his eternal home, and the mourners go
about the streetsEcc 12:6 before the silver cord is snapped, or the golden bowl is broken, or the pitcher is shattered at the
fountain, or the wheel broken at the cistern,
Ecc 12:7 and the dust returns to the earth as it was, and the spirit returns to God who gave it.
Ecc 12:8 Vanity of vanities, says the Preacher; all is vanity.
Ecc 12:9 Besides being wise, the Preacher also taught the people knowledge, weighing and studying and
arranging many proverbs with great care.
Ecc 12:10 The Preacher sought to find words of delight, and uprightly he wrote words of truth.
Ecc 12:11 The words of the wise are like goads, and like nails firmly fixed are the collected sayings; they are
given by one Shepherd.
Ecc 12:12 My son, beware of anything beyond these. Of making many books there is no end, and much study is
a weariness of the flesh.
Ecc 12:13 The end of the matter; all has been heard. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the
whole duty of man.
Ecc 12:14 For God will bring every deed into judgment, with every secret thing, whether good or evil.
Sol 1:1 The Song of Songs, which is Solomon's.
Sol 1:2 Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth! For your love is better than wine;
Sol 1:3 your anointing oils are fragrant; your name is oil poured out; therefore virgins love you.
Sol 1:4 Draw me after you; let us run. The king has brought me into his chambers. We will exult and rejoice in
you; we will extol your love more than wine; rightly do they love you.
Sol 1:5 I am very dark, but lovely, O daughters of Jerusalem, like the tents of Kedar, like the curtains of
Solomon.
Sol 1:6 Do not gaze at me because I am dark, because the sun has looked upon me. My mother's sons were
angry with me; they made me keeper of the vineyards, but my own vineyard I have not kept!
Sol 1:7 Tell me, you whom my soul loves, where you pasture your flock, where you make it lie down at noon; for
why should I be like one who veils herself beside the flocks of your companions?
Sol 1:8 If you do not know, O most beautiful among women, follow in the tracks of the flock, and pasture your
young goats beside the shepherds' tents.
Sol 1:9 I compare you, my love, to a mare among Pharaoh's chariots.
Sol 1:10 Your cheeks are lovely with ornaments, your neck with strings of jewels.
Sol 1:11 We will make for you ornaments of gold, studded with silver.
Sol 1:12 While the king was on his couch, my nard gave forth its fragrance.
Sol 1:13 My beloved is to me a sachet of myrrh that lies between my breasts.
Sol 1:14 My beloved is to me a cluster of henna blossoms in the vineyards of Engedi.
Sol 1:15 Behold, you are beautiful, my love; behold, you are beautiful; your eyes are doves.
Sol 1:16 Behold, you are beautiful, my beloved, truly delightful. Our couch is green;
Sol 1:17 the beams of our house are cedar; our rafters are pine.
Sol 2:1 I am a rose of Sharon, a lily of the valleys.
Sol 2:2 As a lily among brambles, so is my love among the young women.
Sol 2:3 As an apple tree among the trees of the forest, so is my beloved among the young men. With great
delight I sat in his shadow, and his fruit was sweet to my taste,
Sol 2:4 He brought me to the banqueting house, and his banner over me was love.
Sol 2:5 Sustain me with raisins; refresh me with apples, for I am sick with love.
Sol 2:6 His left hand is under my head, and his right hand embraces me!
Sol 2:7 I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, by the gazelles or the does of the field, that you not stir up or
awaken love until it pleases.
Sol 2:8 The voice of my beloved! Behold, he comes, leaping over the mountains, bounding over the hills.
Sol 2:9 My beloved is like a gazelle or a young stag. Behold, there he stands behind our wall, gazing through
the windows, looking through the lattice.
Sol 2:10 My beloved speaks and says to me: "Arise, my love, my beautiful one, and come away,
Sol 2:11 for behold, the winter is past; the rain is over and gone.
Sol 2:12 The flowers appear on the earth, the time of singing has come, and the voice of the turtledove is heard
in our land.
Sol 2:13 The fig tree ripens its figs, and the vines are in blossom; they give forth fragrance. Arise, my love, my
beautiful one, and come away.
Sol 2:14 O my dove, in the clefts of the rock, in the crannies of the cliff, let me see your face, let me hear your
voice, for your voice is sweet, and your face is lovely.
Sol 2:15 Catch the foxes for us, the little foxes that spoil the vineyards, for our vineyards are in blossom."Sol 2:16 My beloved is mine, and I am his; he grazes among the lilies.
Sol 2:17 Until the day breathes and the shadows flee, turn, my beloved, be like a gazelle or a young stag on
cleft mountains.
Sol 3:1 On my bed by nightI sought him whom my soul loves; I sought him, but found him not.
Sol 3:2 I will rise now and go about the city, in the streets and in the squares; I will seek him whom my soul
loves. I sought him, but found him not.
Sol 3:3 The watchmen found me as they went about in the city. "Have you seen him whom my soul loves?"
Sol 3:4 Scarcely had I passed them when I found him whom my soul loves. I held him, and would not let him go
until I had brought him into my mother's house, and into the chamber of her who conceived me.
Sol 3:5 I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, by the gazelles or the does of the field, that you not stir up or
awaken love until it pleases.
Sol 3:6 What is that coming up from the wilderness like columns of smoke, perfumed with myrrh and
frankincense, with all the fragrant powders of a merchant?
Sol 3:7 Behold, it is the litter of Solomon! Around it are sixty mighty men, some of the mighty men of Israel,
Sol 3:8 all of them wearing swords and expert in war, each with his sword at his thigh, against terror by night.
Sol 3:9 King Solomon made himself a carriage from the wood of Lebanon.
Sol 3:10 He made its posts of silver, its back of gold, its seat of purple; its interior was inlaid with love by the
daughters of Jerusalem.
Sol 3:11 Go out, O daughters of Zion, and look upon King Solomon, with the crown with which his mother
crowned him on the day of his wedding, on the day of the gladness of his heart.
Sol 4:1 Behold, you are beautiful, my love, behold, you are beautiful! Your eyes are doves behind your veil.
Your hair is like a flock of goats leaping down the slopes of Gilead.
Sol 4:2 Your teeth are like a flock of shorn ewes that have come up from the washing, all of which bear twins,
and not one among them has lost its young.
Sol 4:3 Your lips are like a scarlet thread, and your mouth is lovely. Your cheeks are like halves of a
pomegranate behind your veil.
Sol 4:4 Your neck is like the tower of David, built in rows of stone; on it hang a thousand shields, all of them
shields of warriors.
Sol 4:5 Your two breasts are like two fawns, twins of a gazelle, that graze among the lilies.
Sol 4:6 Until the day breathes and the shadows flee, I will go away to the mountain of myrrh and the hill of
frankincense.
Sol 4:7 You are altogether beautiful, my love; there is no flaw in you.
Sol 4:8 Come with me from Lebanon, my bride; come with me from Lebanon. Depart from the peak of Amana,
from the peak of Senir and Hermon, from the dens of lions, from the mountains of leopards.
Sol 4:9 You have captivated my heart, my sister, my bride; you have captivated my heart with one glance of
your eyes, with one jewel of your necklace.
Sol 4:10 How beautiful is your love, my sister, my bride! How much better is your love than wine, and the
fragrance of your oils than any spice!
Sol 4:11 Your lips drip nectar, my bride; honey and milk are under your tongue; the fragrance of your garments
is like the fragrance of Lebanon.
Sol 4:12 A garden locked is my sister, my bride, a spring locked, a fountain sealed.
Sol 4:13 Your shoots are an orchard of pomegranates with all choicest fruits, henna with nard,
Sol 4:14 nard and saffron, calamus and cinnamon, with all trees of frankincense, myrrh and aloes, with all chief
spicesSol 4:15 a garden fountain, a well of living water, and flowing streams from Lebanon.
Sol 4:16 Awake, O north wind, and come, O south wind! Blow upon my garden, let its spices flow. Let my
beloved come to his garden, and eat its choicest fruits.
Sol 5:1 I came to my garden, my sister, my bride, I gathered my myrrh with my spice, I ate my honeycomb with
my honey, I drank my wine with my milk. Eat, friends, drink, and be drunk with love!
Sol 5:2 I slept, but my heart was awake. A sound! My beloved is knocking. "Open to me, my sister, my love, my
dove, my perfect one, for my head is wet with dew, my locks with the drops of the night."
Sol 5:3 I had put off my garment; how could I put it on? I had bathed my feet; how could I soil them?
Sol 5:4 My beloved put his hand to the latch, and my heart was thrilled within me.
Sol 5:5 I arose to open to my beloved, and my hands dripped with myrrh, my fingers with liquid myrrh, on the
handles of the bolt.
Sol 5:6 I opened to my beloved, but my beloved had turned and gone. My soul failed me when he spoke. I
sought him, but found him not; I called him, but he gave no answer.
Sol 5:7 The watchmen found me as they went about in the city; they beat me, they bruised me, they took away
my veil, those watchmen of the walls.Sol 5:8 I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, if you find my beloved, that you tell him I am sick with love.
Sol 5:9 What is your beloved more than another beloved, O most beautiful among women? What is your
beloved more than another beloved, that you thus adjure us?
Sol 5:10 My beloved is radiant and ruddy, distinguished among ten thousand.
Sol 5:11 His head is the finest gold; his locks are wavy, black as a raven.
Sol 5:12 His eyes are like doves beside streams of water, bathed in milk, sitting beside a full pool.
Sol 5:13 His cheeks are like beds of spices, mounds of sweet-smelling herbs. His lips are lilies, dripping liquid
myrrh.
Sol 5:14 His arms are rods of gold, set with jewels. His body is polished ivory, bedecked with sapphires.
Sol 5:15 His legs are alabaster columns, set on bases of gold. His appearance is like Lebanon, choice as the
cedars.
Sol 5:16 His mouth is most sweet, and he is altogether desirable. This is my beloved and this is my friend, O
daughters of Jerusalem.
Sol 6:1 Where has your beloved gone,O most beautiful among women? Where has your beloved turned, that
we may seek him with you?
Sol 6:2 My beloved has gone down to his garden to the beds of spices, to graze in the gardens and to gather
lilies.
Sol 6:3 I am my beloved's and my beloved is mine; he grazes among the lilies.
Sol 6:4 You are beautiful as Tirzah, my love, lovely as Jerusalem, awesome as an army with banners.
Sol 6:5 Turn away your eyes from me, for they overwhelm me- Your hair is like a flock of goats leaping down the
slopes of Gilead.
Sol 6:6 Your teeth are like a flock of ewes that have come up from the washing; all of them bear twins; not one
among them has lost its young.
Sol 6:7 Your cheeks are like halves of a pomegranate behind your veil.
Sol 6:8 There are sixty queens and eighty concubines, and virgins without number.
Sol 6:9 My dove, my perfect one, is the only one, the only one of her mother, pure to her who bore her. The
young women saw her and called her blessed; the queens and concubines also, and they praised her.
Sol 6:10 "Who is this who looks down like the dawn, beautiful as the moon, bright as the sun, awesome as an
army with banners?"
Sol 6:11 I went down to the nut orchard to look at the blossoms of the valley, to see whether the vines had
budded, whether the pomegranates were in bloom.
Sol 6:12 Before I was aware, my desire set me among the chariots of my kinsman, a prince.
Sol 6:13 Return, return, O Shulammite, return, return, that we may look upon you. Why should you look upon
the Shulammite, as upon a dance before two armies?
Sol 7:1 How beautiful are your feet in sandals, O noble daughter! Your rounded thighs are like jewels, the work
of a master hand.
Sol 7:2 Your navel is a rounded bowl that never lacks mixed wine. Your belly is a heap of wheat, encircled with
lilies.
Sol 7:3 Your two breasts are like two fawns, twins of a gazelle.
Sol 7:4 Your neck is like an ivory tower. Your eyes are pools in Heshbon, by the gate of Bath-rabbim. Your nose
is like a tower of Lebanon, which looks toward Damascus.
Sol 7:5 Your head crowns you like Carmel, and your flowing locks are like purple; a king is held captive in the
tresses.
Sol 7:6 How beautiful and pleasant you are, O loved one, with all your delights!
Sol 7:7 Your stature is like a palm tree, and your breasts are like its clusters.
Sol 7:8 I say I will climb the palm tree and lay hold of its fruit. Oh may your breasts be like clusters of the vine,
and the scent of your breath like apples,
Sol 7:9 and your mouth like the best wine. It goes down smoothly for my beloved, gliding over lips and teeth.
Sol 7:10 I am my beloved's, and his desire is for me.
Sol 7:11 Come, my beloved, let us go out into the fields and lodge in the villages;
Sol 7:12 let us go out early to the vineyards and see whether the vines have budded, whether the grape
blossoms have opened and the pomegranates are in bloom. There I will give you my love.
Sol 7:13 The mandrakes give forth fragrance, and beside our doors are all choice fruits, new as well as old,
which I have laid up for you, O my beloved.
Sol 8:1 Oh that you were like a brother to me who nursed at my mother's breasts! If I found you outside, I would
kiss you, and none would despise me.
Sol 8:2 I would lead you and bring you into the house of my mother- she who used to teach me. I would give
you spiced wine to drink, the juice of my pomegranate.
Sol 8:3 His left hand is under my head, and his right hand embraces me!Sol 8:4 I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, that you not stir up or awaken love until it pleases.
Sol 8:5 Who is that coming up from the wilderness, leaning on her beloved? Under the apple tree I awakened
you. There your mother was in labor with you; there she who bore you was in labor.
Sol 8:6 Set me as a seal upon your heart, as a seal upon your arm, for love is strong as death, jealousy is fierce
as the grave. Its flashes are flashes of fire, the very flame of the LORD.
Sol 8:7 Many waters cannot quench love, neither can floods drown it. If a man offered for love all the wealth of
his house, he would be utterly despised.
Sol 8:8 We have a little sister, and she has no breasts. What shall we do for our sister on the day when she is
spoken for?
Sol 8:9 If she is a wall, we will build on her a battlement of silver, but if she is a door, we will enclose her with
boards of cedar.
Sol 8:10 I was a wall, and my breasts were like towers; then I was in his eyes as one who finds peace.
Sol 8:11 Solomon had a vineyard at Baal-hamon; he let out the vineyard to keepers; each one was to bring for
its fruit a thousand pieces of silver.
Sol 8:12 My vineyard, my very own, is before me; you, O Solomon, may have the thousand, and the keepers of
the fruit two hundred.
Sol 8:13 O you who dwell in the gardens, with companions listening for your voice; let me hear it.
Sol 8:14 Make haste, my beloved, and be like a gazelle or a young stag on the mountains of spices.
Isa 1:1 The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of
Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.
Isa 1:2 Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth; for the LORD has spoken: "Children have I reared and brought
up, but they have rebelled against me.
Isa 1:3 The ox knows its owner, and the donkey its master's crib, but Israel does not know, my people do not
understand."
Isa 1:4 Ah, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, offspring of evildoers, children who deal corruptly! They
have forsaken the LORD, they have despised the Holy One of Israel, they are utterly estranged.
Isa 1:5 Why will you still be struck down? Why will you continue to rebel? The whole head is sick, and the whole
heart faint.
Isa 1:6 From the sole of the foot even to the head, there is no soundness in it, but bruises and sores and raw
wounds; they are not pressed out or bound up or softened with oil.
Isa 1:7 Your country lies desolate; your cities are burned with fire; in your very presence foreigners devour your
land; it is desolate, as overthrown by foreigners.
Isa 1:8 And the daughter of Zion is left like a booth in a vineyard, like a lodge in a cucumber field, like a
besieged city.
Isa 1:9 If the LORD of hosts had not left us a few survivors, we should have been like Sodom, and become like
Gomorrah.
Isa 1:10 Hear the word of the LORD, you rulers of Sodom! Give ear to the teaching of our God, you people of
Gomorrah!
Isa 1:11 "What to me is the multitude of your sacrifices? says the LORD; I have had enough of burnt offerings of
rams and the fat of well-fed beasts; I do not delight in the blood of bulls, or of lambs, or of goats.
Isa 1:12 "When you come to appear before me, who has required of you this trampling of my courts?
Isa 1:13 Bring no more vain offerings; incense is an abomination to me. New moon and Sabbath and the calling
of convocations- I cannot endure iniquity and solemn assembly.
Isa 1:14 Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hates; they have become a burden to me; I am
weary of bearing them.
Isa 1:15 When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you; even though you make many prayers, I
will not listen; your hands are full of blood.
Isa 1:16 Wash yourselves; make yourselves clean; remove the evil of your deeds from before my eyes; cease to
do evil,
Isa 1:17 learn to do good; seek justice, correct oppression; bring justice to the fatherless, plead the widow's
cause.
Isa 1:18 "Come now, let us reason together, says the LORD: though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as
white as snow; though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool.
Isa 1:19 If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land;
Isa 1:20 but if you refuse and rebel, you shall be eaten by the sword; for the mouth of the LORD has spoken."
Isa 1:21 How the faithful city has become a whore, she who was full of justice! Righteousness lodged in her, but
now murderers.
Isa 1:22 Your silver has become dross, your best wine mixed with water.
Isa 1:23 Your princes are rebels and companions of thieves. Everyone loves a bribe and runs after gifts. Theydo not bring justice to the fatherless, and the widow's cause does not come to them.
Isa 1:24 Therefore the Lord declares, the LORD of hosts, the Mighty One of Israel: "Ah, I will get relief from my
enemies and avenge myself on my foes.
Isa 1:25 I will turn my hand against you and will smelt away your dross as with lye and remove all your alloy.
Isa 1:26 And I will restore your judges as at the first, and your counselors as at the beginning. Afterward you
shall be called the city of righteousness, the faithful city."
Isa 1:27 Zion shall be redeemed by justice, and those in her who repent, by righteousness.
Isa 1:28 But rebels and sinners shall be broken together, and those who forsake the LORD shall be consumed.
Isa 1:29 For they shall be ashamed of the oaks that you desired; and you shall blush for the gardens that you
have chosen.
Isa 1:30 For you shall be like an oak whose leaf withers, and like a garden without water.
Isa 1:31 And the strong shall become tinder, and his work a spark, and both of them shall burn together, with
none to quench them.
Isa 2:1 The word that Isaiah the son of Amoz saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem.
Isa 2:2 It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the LORD shall be established
as the highest of the mountains, and shall be lifted up above the hills; and all the nations shall flow to it,
Isa 2:3 and many peoples shall come, and say: "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the LORD, to the house
of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways and that we may walk in his paths." For out of Zion shall go
the law, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.
Isa 2:4 He shall judge between the nations, and shall decide disputes for many peoples; and they shall beat
their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation,
neither shall they learn war anymore.
Isa 2:5 O house of Jacob, come, let us walk in the light of the LORD.
Isa 2:6 For you have rejected your people, the house of Jacob, because they are full of things from the east and
of fortunetellers like the Philistines, and they strike hands with the children of foreigners.
Isa 2:7 Their land is filled with silver and gold, and there is no end to their treasures; their land is filled with
horses, and there is no end to their chariots.
Isa 2:8 Their land is filled with idols; they bow down to the work of their hands, to what their own fingers have
made.
Isa 2:9 So man is humbled, and each one is brought low- do not forgive them!
Isa 2:10 Enter into the rock and hide in the dust from before the terror of the LORD, and from the splendor of his
majesty.
Isa 2:11 The haughty looks of man shall be brought low, and the lofty pride of men shall be humbled, and the
LORD alone will be exalted in that day.
Isa 2:12 For the LORD of hosts has a day against all that is proud and lofty, against all that is lifted up- and it
shall be brought low;
Isa 2:13 against all the cedars of Lebanon, lofty and lifted up; and against all the oaks of Bashan;
Isa 2:14 against all the lofty mountains, and against all the uplifted hills;
Isa 2:15 against every high tower, and against every fortified wall;
Isa 2:16 against all the ships of Tarshish, and against all the beautiful craft.
Isa 2:17 And the haughtiness of man shall be humbled, and the lofty pride of men shall be brought low, and the
LORD alone will be exalted in that day.
Isa 2:18 And the idols shall utterly pass away.
Isa 2:19 And people shall enter the caves of the rocks and the holes of the ground, from before the terror of the
LORD, and from the splendor of his majesty, when he rises to terrify the earth.
Isa 2:20 In that day mankind will cast away their idols of silver and their idols of gold, which they made for
themselves to worship, to the moles and to the bats,
Isa 2:21 to enter the caverns of the rocks and the clefts of the cliffs, from before the terror of the LORD, and
from the splendor of his majesty, when he rises to terrify the earth.
Isa 2:22 Stop regarding man in whose nostrils is breath, for of what account is he?
Isa 3:1 For behold, the Lord GOD of hosts is taking away from Jerusalem and from Judah support and supply,
all support of bread, and all support of water;
Isa 3:2 the mighty man and the soldier, the judge and the prophet, the diviner and the elder,
Isa 3:3 the captain of fifty and the man of rank, the counselor and the skillful magician and the expert in charms.
Isa 3:4 And I will make boys their princes, and infants shall rule over them.
Isa 3:5 And the people will oppress one another, every one his fellow and every one his neighbor; the youth will
be insolent to the elder, and the despised to the honorable.
Isa 3:6 For a man will take hold of his brother in the house of his father, saying: "You have a cloak; you shall be
our leader, and this heap of ruins shall be under your rule";Isa 3:7 in that day he will speak out, saying: "I will not be a healer; in my house there is neither bread nor cloak;
you shall not make me leader of the people."
Isa 3:8 For Jerusalem has stumbled, and Judah has fallen, because their speech and their deeds are against
the LORD, defying his glorious presence.
Isa 3:9 For the look on their faces bears witness against them; they proclaim their sin like Sodom; they do not
hide it. Woe to them! For they have brought evil on themselves.
Isa 3:10 Tell the righteous that it shall be well with them, for they shall eat the fruit of their deeds.
Isa 3:11 Woe to the wicked! It shall be ill with him, for what his hands have dealt out shall be done to him.
Isa 3:12 My people- infants are their oppressors, and women rule over them. O my people, your guides mislead
you and they have swallowed up the course of your paths.
Isa 3:13 The LORD has taken his place to contend; he stands to judge peoples.
Isa 3:14 The LORD will enter into judgment with the elders and princes of his people: "It is you who have
devoured the vineyard, the spoil of the poor is in your houses.
Isa 3:15 What do you mean by crushing my people, by grinding the face of the poor?" declares the Lord GOD of
hosts.
Isa 3:16 The LORD said: Because the daughters of Zion are haughty and walk with outstretched necks,
glancing wantonly with their eyes, mincing along as they go, tinkling with their feet,
Isa 3:17 therefore the Lord will strike with a scab the heads of the daughters of Zion, and the LORD will lay bare
their secret parts.
Isa 3:18 In that day the Lord will take away the finery of the anklets, the headbands, and the crescents;
Isa 3:19 the pendants, the bracelets, and the scarves;
Isa 3:20 the headdresses, the armlets, the sashes, the perfume boxes, and the amulets;
Isa 3:21 the signet rings and nose rings;
Isa 3:22 the festal robes, the mantles, the cloaks, and the handbags;
Isa 3:23 the mirrors, the linen garments, the turbans, and the veils.
Isa 3:24 Instead of perfume there will be rottenness; and instead of a belt, a rope; and instead of well-set hair,
baldness; and instead of a rich robe, a skirt of sackcloth; and branding instead of beauty.
Isa 3:25 Your men shall fall by the sword and your mighty men in battle.
Isa 3:26 And her gates shall lament and mourn; empty, she shall sit on the ground.
Isa 4:1 And seven women shall take hold of one man in that day, saying, "We will eat our own bread and wear
our own clothes, only let us be called by your name; take away our reproach."
Isa 4:2 In that day the branch of the LORD shall be beautiful and glorious, and the fruit of the land shall be the
pride and honor of the survivors of Israel.
Isa 4:3 And he who is left in Zion and remains in Jerusalem will be called holy, everyone who has been
recorded for life in Jerusalem,
Isa 4:4 when the Lord shall have washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion and cleansed the bloodstains of
Jerusalem from its midst by a spirit of judgment and by a spirit of burning.
Isa 4:5 Then the LORD will create over the whole site of Mount Zion and over her assemblies a cloud by day,
and smoke and the shining of a flaming fire by night; for over all the glory there will be a canopy.
Isa 4:6 There will be a booth for shade by day from the heat, and for a refuge and a shelter from the storm and
rain.
Isa 5:1 Let me sing for my belovedmy love song concerning his vineyard:: My beloved had a vineyard on a very
fertile hill.
Isa 5:2 He dug it and cleared it of stones, and planted it with choice vines; he built a watchtower in the midst of
it, and hewed out a wine vat in it; and he looked for it to yield grapes, but it yielded wild grapes.
Isa 5:3 And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, judge between me and my vineyard.
Isa 5:4 What more was there to do for my vineyard, that I have not done in it? When I looked for it to yield
grapes, why did it yield wild grapes?
Isa 5:5 And now I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard. I will remove its hedge, and it shall be devoured; I
will break down its wall, and it shall be trampled down.
Isa 5:6 I will make it a waste; it shall not be pruned or hoed, and briers and thorns shall grow up; I will also
command the clouds that they rain no rain upon it.
Isa 5:7 For the vineyard of the LORD of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah are his pleasant
planting; and he looked for justice, but behold, bloodshed; for righteousness, but behold, an outcry!
Isa 5:8 Woe to those who join house to house, who add field to field, until there is no more room, and you are
made to dwell alone in the midst of the land.
Isa 5:9 The LORD of hosts has sworn in my hearing: "Surely many houses shall be desolate, large and beautiful
houses, without inhabitant.
Isa 5:10 For ten acres of vineyard shall yield but one bath, and a homer of seed shall yield but an ephah."Isa 5:11 Woe to those who rise early in the morning, that they may run after strong drink, who tarry late into the
evening as wine inflames them!
Isa 5:12 They have lyre and harp, tambourine and flute and wine at their feasts, but they do not regard the
deeds of the LORD, or see the work of his hands.
Isa 5:13 Therefore my people go into exile for lack of knowledge; their honored men go hungry, and their
multitude is parched with thirst.
Isa 5:14 Therefore Sheol has enlarged its appetite and opened its mouth beyond measure, and the nobility of
Jerusalem and her multitude will go down, her revelers and he who exults in her.
Isa 5:15 Man is humbled, and each one is brought low, and the eyes of the haughty are brought low.
Isa 5:16 But the LORD of hosts is exalted in justice, and the Holy God shows himself holy in righteousness.
Isa 5:17 Then shall the lambs graze as in their pasture, and nomads shall eat among the ruins of the rich.
Isa 5:18 Woe to those who draw iniquity with cords of falsehood, who draw sin as with cart ropes,
Isa 5:19 who say: "Let him be quick, let him speed his work that we may see it; let the counsel of the Holy One
of Israel draw near, and let it come, that we may know it!"
Isa 5:20 Woe to those who call evil good and good evil, who put darkness for light and light for darkness, who
put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter!
Isa 5:21 Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes, and shrewd in their own sight!
Isa 5:22 Woe to those who are heroes at drinking wine, and valiant men in mixing strong drink,
Isa 5:23 who acquit the guilty for a bribe, and deprive the innocent of his right!
Isa 5:24 Therefore, as the tongue of fire devours the stubble, and as dry grass sinks down in the flame, so their
root will be as rottenness, and their blossom go up like dust; for they have rejected the law of the LORD of hosts,
and have despised the word of the Holy One of Israel.
Isa 5:25 Therefore the anger of the LORD was kindled against his people, and he stretched out his hand against
them and struck them, and the mountains quaked; and their corpses were as refuse in the midst of the streets.
For all this his anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still.
Isa 5:26 He will raise a signal for nations afar off, and whistle for them from the ends of the earth; and behold,
quickly, speedily they come!
Isa 5:27 None is weary, none stumbles, none slumbers or sleeps, not a waistband is loose, not a sandal strap
broken;
Isa 5:28 their arrows are sharp, all their bows bent, their horses' hoofs seem like flint, and their wheels like the
whirlwind.
Isa 5:29 Their roaring is like a lion, like young lions they roar; they growl and seize their prey; they carry it off,
and none can rescue.
Isa 5:30 They will growl over it on that day, like the growling of the sea. And if one looks to the land, behold,
darkness and distress; and the light is darkened by its clouds.
Isa 6:1 In the year that King Uzziah died I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up; and the train of
his robe filled the temple.
Isa 6:2 Above him stood the seraphim. Each had six wings: with two he covered his face, and with two he
covered his feet, and with two he flew.
Isa 6:3 And one called to another and said: "Holy, holy, holy is the LORD of hosts; the whole earth is full of his
glory!"
Isa 6:4 And the foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with
smoke.
Isa 6:5 And I said: "Woe is me! For I am lost; for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people
of unclean lips; for my eyes have seen the King, the LORD of hosts!"
Isa 6:6 Then one of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a burning coal that he had taken with tongs
from the altar.
Isa 6:7 And he touched my mouth and said: "Behold, this has touched your lips; your guilt is taken away, and
your sin atoned for.
Isa 6:8 And I heard the voice of the Lord saying, "Whom shall I send, and who will go for us?" Then I said, "Here
am I! Send me."
Isa 6:9 And he said, "Go, and say to this people: "' Keep on hearing, but do not understand; keep on seeing, but
do not perceive.'
Isa 6:10 Make the heart of this people dull, and their ears heavy, and blind their eyes; lest they see with their
eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and turn and be healed."
Isa 6:11 Then I said, "How long, O Lord?" And he said: "Until cities lie waste without inhabitant, and houses
without people, and the land is a desolate waste,
Isa 6:12 and the LORD removes people far away, and the forsaken places are many in the midst of the land.
Isa 6:13 And though a tenth remain in it, it will be burned again, like a terebinth or an oak, whose stump remainswhen it is felled." The holy seed is its stump.
Isa 7:1 In the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, son of Uzziah, king of Judah, Rezin the king of Syria and Pekah
the son of Remaliah the king of Israel came up to Jerusalem to wage war against it, but could not yet mount an
attack against it.
Isa 7:2 When the house of David was told, "Syria is in league with Ephraim," the heart of Ahaz and the heart of
his people shook as the trees of the forest shake before the wind.
Isa 7:3 And the LORD said to Isaiah, "Go out to meet Ahaz, you and Shear-jashub your son, at the end of the
conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the Washer's Field.
Isa 7:4 And say to him, 'Be careful, be quiet, do not fear, and do not let your heart be faint because of these two
smoldering stumps of firebrands, at the fierce anger of Rezin and Syria and the son of Remaliah.
Isa 7:5 Because Syria, with Ephraim and the son of Remaliah, has devised evil against you, saying,
Isa 7:6 "Let us go up against Judah and terrify it, and let us conquer it for ourselves, and set up the son of
Tabeel as king in the midst of it,"
Isa 7:7 thus says the Lord GOD: "' It shall not stand, and it shall not come to pass.
Isa 7:8 For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is Rezin. (Within sixty-five years Ephraim
will be broken to pieces so that it will no longer be a people.)
Isa 7:9 "'And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is the son of Remaliah. If you are not
firm in faith, you will not be firm at all.'"
Isa 7:10 Again the LORD spoke to Ahaz,
Isa 7:11 "Ask a sign of the LORD your God; let it be deep as Sheol or high as heaven."
Isa 7:12 But Ahaz said, "I will not ask, and I will not put the LORD to the test."
Isa 7:13 And he said, "Hear then, O house of David! Is it too little for you to weary men, that you weary my God
also?
Isa 7:14 Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and
shall call his name Immanuel.
Isa 7:15 He shall eat curds and honey when he knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good.
Isa 7:16 For before the boy knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good, the land whose two kings you
dread will be deserted.
Isa 7:17 The LORD will bring upon you and upon your people and upon your father's house such days as have
not come since the day that Ephraim departed from Judah- the king of Assyria."
Isa 7:18 In that day the LORD will whistle for the fly that is at the end of the streams of Egypt, and for the bee
that is in the land of Assyria.
Isa 7:19 And they will all come and settle in the steep ravines, and in the clefts of the rocks, and on all the
thornbushes, and on all the pastures.
Isa 7:20 In that day the Lord will shave with a razor that is hired beyond the River- with the king of Assyria- the
head and the hair of the feet, and it will sweep away the beard also.
Isa 7:21 In that day a man will keep alive a young cow and two sheep,
Isa 7:22 and because of the abundance of milk that they give, he will eat curds, for everyone who is left in the
land will eat curds and honey.
Isa 7:23 In that day every place where there used to be a thousand vines, worth a thousand shekels of silver,
will become briers and thorns.
Isa 7:24 With bow and arrows a man will come there, for all the land will be briers and thorns.
Isa 7:25 And as for all the hills that used to be hoed with a hoe, you will not come there for fear of briers and
thorns, but they will become a place where cattle are let loose and where sheep tread.
Isa 8:1 Then the LORD said to me, "Take a large tablet and write on it in common characters, 'Belonging to
Maher-shalal-hashbaz.'
Isa 8:2 And I will get reliable witnesses, Uriah the priest and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah, to attest for me."
Isa 8:3 And I went to the prophetess, and she conceived and bore a son. Then the LORD said to me, "Call his
name Maher-shalal-hashbaz;
Isa 8:4 for before the boy knows how to cry 'My father' or 'My mother,' the wealth of Damascus and the spoil of
Samaria will be carried away before the king of Assyria."
Isa 8:5 The LORD spoke to me again:
Isa 8:6 "Because this people have refused the waters of Shiloah that flow gently, and rejoice over Rezin and the
son of Remaliah,
Isa 8:7 therefore, behold, the Lord is bringing up against them the waters of the River, mighty and many, the
king of Assyria and all his glory. And it will rise over all its channels and go over all its banks,
Isa 8:8 and it will sweep on into Judah, it will overflow and pass on, reaching even to the neck, and its outspread
wings will fill the breadth of your land, O Immanuel."
Isa 8:9 Be broken, you peoples, and be shattered; give ear, all you far countries; strap on your armor and beshattered; strap on your armor and be shattered.
Isa 8:10 Take counsel together, but it will come to nothing; speak a word, but it will not stand, for God is with us.
Isa 8:11 For the LORD spoke thus to me with his strong hand upon me, and warned me not to walk in the way
of this people, saying:
Isa 8:12 "Do not call conspiracy all that this people calls conspiracy, and do not fear what they fear, nor be in
dread.
Isa 8:13 But the LORD of hosts, him you shall regard as holy. Let him be your fear, and let him be your dread.
Isa 8:14 And he will become a sanctuary and a stone of offense and a rock of stumbling to both houses of
Israel, a trap and a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Isa 8:15 And many shall stumble on it. They shall fall and be broken; they shall be snared and taken."
Isa 8:16 Bind up the testimony; seal the teaching among my disciples.
Isa 8:17 I will wait for the LORD, who is hiding his face from the house of Jacob, and I will hope in him.
Isa 8:18 Behold, I and the children whom the LORD has given me are signs and portents in Israel from the
LORD of hosts, who dwells on Mount Zion.
Isa 8:19 And when they say to you, "Inquire of the mediums and the necromancers who chirp and mutter,"
should not a people inquire of their God? Should they inquire of the dead on behalf of the living?
Isa 8:20 To the teaching and to the testimony! If they will not speak according to this word, it is because they
have no dawn.
Isa 8:21 They will pass through the land, greatly distressed and hungry. And when they are hungry, they will be
enraged and will speak contemptuously against their king and their God, and turn their faces upward.
Isa 8:22 And they will look to the earth, but behold, distress and darkness, the gloom of anguish. And they will
be thrust into thick darkness.
Isa 9:1 But there will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time he brought into contempt the
land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, but in the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land
beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations.
Isa 9:2 The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light; those who dwelt in a land of deep
darkness, on them has light shined.
Isa 9:3 You have multiplied the nation; you have increased its joy; they rejoice before you as with joy at the
harvest, as they are glad when they divide the spoil.
Isa 9:4 For the yoke of his burden, and the staff for his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, you have broken as
on the day of Midian.
Isa 9:5 For every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult and every garment rolled in blood will be burned
as fuel for the fire.
Isa 9:6 For to us a child is born, to us a son is given; and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his
name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.
Isa 9:7 Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end, on the throne of David and over his
kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore.
The zeal of the LORD of hosts will do this.
Isa 9:8 The Lord has sent a word against Jacob, and it will fall on Israel;
Isa 9:9 and all the people will know, Ephraim and the inhabitants of Samaria, who say in pride and in arrogance
of heart:
Isa 9:10 "The bricks have fallen, but we will build with dressed stones; the sycamores have been cut down, but
we will put cedars in their place."
Isa 9:11 But the LORD raises the adversaries of Rezin against him, and stirs up his enemies.
Isa 9:12 The Syrians on the east and the Philistines on the west devour Israel with open mouth. For all this his
anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still.
Isa 9:13 The people did not turn to him who struck them, nor inquire of the LORD of hosts.
Isa 9:14 So the LORD cut off from Israel head and tail, palm branch and reed in one dayIsa 9:15 the elder and honored man is the head, and the prophet who teaches lies is the tail;
Isa 9:16 for those who guide this people have been leading them astray, and those who are guided by them are
swallowed up.
Isa 9:17 Therefore the Lord does not rejoice over their young men, and has no compassion on their fatherless
and widows; for everyone is godless and an evildoer, and every mouth speaks folly. For all this his anger has not
turned away, and his hand is stretched out still.
Isa 9:18 For wickedness burns like a fire; it consumes briers and thorns; it kindles the thickets of the forest, and
they roll upward in a column of smoke.
Isa 9:19 Through the wrath of the LORD of hosts the land is scorched, and the people are like fuel for the fire;
no one spares another.
Isa 9:20 They slice meat on the right, but are still hungry, and they devour on the left, but are not satisfied; eachdevours the flesh of his own arm,
Isa 9:21 Manasseh devours Ephraim, and Ephraim devours Manasseh; together they are against Judah. For all
this his anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still.
Isa 10:1 Woe to those who decree iniquitous decrees, and the writers who keep writing oppression,
Isa 10:2 to turn aside the needy from justice and to rob the poor of my people of their right, that widows may be
their spoil, and that they may make the fatherless their prey!
Isa 10:3 What will you do on the day of punishment, in the ruin that will come from afar? To whom will you flee
for help, and where will you leave your wealth?
Isa 10:4 Nothing remains but to crouch among the prisoners or fall among the slain. For all this his anger has
not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still.
Isa 10:5 Ah, Assyria, the rod of my anger; the staff in their hands is my fury!
Isa 10:6 Against a godless nation I send him, and against the people of my wrath I command him, to take spoil
and seize plunder, and to tread them down like the mire of the streets.
Isa 10:7 But he does not so intend, and his heart does not so think; but it is in his heart to destroy, and to cut off
nations not a few;
Isa 10:8 for he says: "Are not my commanders all kings?
Isa 10:9 Is not Calno like Carchemish? Is not Hamath like Arpad? Is not Samaria like Damascus?
Isa 10:10 As my hand has reached to the kingdoms of the idols, whose carved images were greater than those
of Jerusalem and Samaria,
Isa 10:11 shall I not do to Jerusalem and her idols as I have done to Samaria and her images?"
Isa 10:12 When the Lord has finished all his work on Mount Zion and on Jerusalem, he will punish the speech of
the arrogant heart of the king of Assyria and the boastful look in his eyes.
Isa 10:13 For he says: "By the strength of my hand I have done it, and by my wisdom, for I have understanding;
I remove the boundaries of peoples, and plunder their treasures; like a bull I bring down those who sit on
thrones.
Isa 10:14 My hand has found like a nest the wealth of the peoples; and as one gathers eggs that have been
forsaken, so I have gathered all the earth; and there was none that moved a wing or opened the mouth or
chirped."
Isa 10:15 Shall the axe boast over him who hews with it, or the saw magnify itself against him who wields it? As
if a rod should wield him who lifts it, or as if a staff should lift him who is not wood!
Isa 10:16 Therefore the Lord GOD of hosts will send wasting sickness among his stout warriors, and under his
glory a burning will be kindled, like the burning of fire.
Isa 10:17 The light of Israel will become a fire, and his Holy One a flame, and it will burn and devour his thorns
and briers in one day.
Isa 10:18 The glory of his forest and of his fruitful land the LORD will destroy, both soul and body, and it will be
as when a sick man wastes away.
Isa 10:19 The remnant of the trees of his forest will be so few that a child can write them down.
Isa 10:20 In that day the remnant of Israel and the survivors of the house of Jacob will no more lean on him who
struck them, but will lean on the LORD, the Holy One of Israel, in truth.
Isa 10:21 A remnant will return, the remnant of Jacob, to the mighty God.
Isa 10:22 For though your people Israel be as the sand of the sea, only a remnant of them will return.
Destruction is decreed, overflowing with righteousness.
Isa 10:23 For the Lord GOD of hosts will make a full end, as decreed, in the midst of all the earth.
Isa 10:24 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD of hosts: "O my people, who dwell in Zion, be not afraid of the
Assyrians when they strike with the rod and lift up their staff against you as the Egyptians did.
Isa 10:25 For in a very little while my fury will come to an end, and my anger will be directed to their destruction.
Isa 10:26 And the LORD of hosts will wield against them a whip, as when he struck Midian at the rock of Oreb.
And his staff will be over the sea, and he will lift it as he did in Egypt.
Isa 10:27 And in that day his burden will depart from your shoulder, and his yoke from your neck; and the yoke
will be broken because of the fat."
Isa 10:28 He has come to Aiath; he has passed through Migron; at Michmash he stores his baggage;
Isa 10:29 they have crossed over the pass; at Geba they lodge for the night; Ramah trembles; Gibeah of Saul
has fled.
Isa 10:30 Cry aloud, O daughter of Gallim! Give attention, O Laishah! O Poor Anathoth!
Isa 10:31 Madmenah is in flight; the inhabitants of Gebim flee for safety.
Isa 10:32 This very day he will halt at Nob; he will shake his fist at the mount of the daughter of Zion, the hill of
Jerusalem.
Isa 10:33 Behold, the Lord GOD of hosts will lop the boughs with terrifying power; the great in height will be
hewn down, and the lofty will be brought low.Isa 10:34 He will cut down the thickets of the forest with an axe, and Lebanon will fall by the Majestic One.
Isa 11:1 There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse, and a branch from his roots shall bear fruit.
Isa 11:2 And the Spirit of the LORD shall rest upon him, the Spirit of wisdom and understanding, the Spirit of
counsel and might, the Spirit of knowledge and the fear of the LORD.
Isa 11:3 And his delight shall be in the fear of the LORD. He shall not judge by what his eyes see, or decide
disputes by what his ears hear,
Isa 11:4 but with righteousness he shall judge the poor, and decide with equity for the meek of the earth; and he
shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he shall kill the wicked.
Isa 11:5 Righteousness shall be the belt of his waist, and faithfulness the belt of his loins.
Isa 11:6 The wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the young goat, and the calf and
the lion and the fattened calf together; and a little child shall lead them.
Isa 11:7 The cow and the bear shall graze; their young shall lie down together; and the lion shall eat straw like
the ox.
Isa 11:8 The nursing child shall play over the hole of the cobra, and the weaned child shall put his hand on the
adder's den.
Isa 11:9 They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain; for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the
LORD as the waters cover the sea.
Isa 11:10 In that day the root of Jesse, who shall stand as a signal for the peoples- of him shall the nations
inquire, and his resting place shall be glorious.
Isa 11:11 In that day the Lord will extend his hand yet a second time to recover the remnant that remains of his
people, from Assyria, from Egypt, from Pathros, from Cush, from Elam, from Shinar, from Hamath, and from the
coastlands of the sea.
Isa 11:12 He will raise a signal for the nations and will assemble the banished of Israel, and gather the
dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth.
Isa 11:13 The jealousy of Ephraim shall depart, and those who harass Judah shall be cut off; Ephraim shall not
be jealous of Judah, and Judah shall not harass Ephraim.
Isa 11:14 But they shall swoop down on the shoulder of the Philistines in the west, and together they shall
plunder the people of the east. They shall put out their hand against Edom and Moab, and the Ammonites shall
obey them.
Isa 11:15 And the LORD will utterly destroy the tongue of the Sea of Egypt, and will wave his hand over the
River with his scorching breath, and strike it into seven channels, and he will lead people across in sandals.
Isa 11:16 And there will be a highway from Assyria for the remnant that remains of his people, as there was for
Israel when they came up from the land of Egypt.
Isa 12:1 You will say in that day:"I will give thanks to you, O LORD, for though you were angry with me, your
anger turned away, that you might comfort me.
Isa 12:2 "Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust, and will not be afraid; for the LORD GOD is my strength and
my song, and he has become my salvation."
Isa 12:3 With joy you will draw water from the wells of salvation.
Isa 12:4 And you will say in that day: "Give thanks to the LORD, call upon his name, make known his deeds
among the peoples, proclaim that his name is exalted.
Isa 12:5 "Sing praises to the LORD, for he has done gloriously; let this be made known in all the earth.
Isa 12:6 Shout, and sing for joy, O inhabitant of Zion, for great in your midst is the Holy One of Israel."
Isa 13:1 The oracle concerning Babylon which Isaiah the son of Amoz saw.
Isa 13:2 On a bare hill raise a signal; cry aloud to them; wave the hand for them to enter the gates of the nobles.
Isa 13:3 I myself have commanded my consecrated ones, and have summoned my mighty men to execute my
anger, my proudly exulting ones.
Isa 13:4 The sound of a tumult is on the mountains as of a great multitude! The sound of an uproar of kingdoms,
of nations gathering together! The LORD of hosts is mustering a host for battle.
Isa 13:5 They come from a distant land, from the end of the heavens, the LORD and the weapons of his
indignation, to destroy the whole land.
Isa 13:6 Wail, for the day of the LORD is near; as destruction from the Almighty it will come!
Isa 13:7 Therefore all hands will be feeble, and every human heart will melt.
Isa 13:8 They will be dismayed: pangs and agony will seize them; they will be in anguish like a woman in labor.
They will look aghast at one another; their faces will be aflame.
Isa 13:9 Behold, the day of the LORD comes, cruel, with wrath and fierce anger, to make the land a desolation
and to destroy its sinners from it.
Isa 13:10 For the stars of the heavens and their constellations will not give their light; the sun will be dark at its
rising, and the moon will not shed its light.
Isa 13:11 I will punish the world for its evil, and the wicked for their iniquity; I will put an end to the pomp of thearrogant, and lay low the pompous pride of the ruthless.
Isa 13:12 I will make people more rare than fine gold, and mankind than the gold of Ophir.
Isa 13:13 Therefore I will make the heavens tremble, and the earth will be shaken out of its place, at the wrath
of the LORD of hosts in the day of his fierce anger.
Isa 13:14 And like a hunted gazelle, or like sheep with none to gather them, each will turn to his own people,
and each will flee to his own land.
Isa 13:15 Whoever is found will be thrust through, and whoever is caught will fall by the sword.
Isa 13:16 Their infants will be dashed in pieces before their eyes; their houses will be plundered and their wives
ravished.
Isa 13:17 Behold, I am stirring up the Medes against them, who have no regard for silver and do not delight in
gold.
Isa 13:18 Their bows will slaughter the young men; they will have no mercy on the fruit of the womb; their eyes
will not pity children.
Isa 13:19 And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the splendor and pomp of the Chaldeans, will be like Sodom and
Gomorrah when God overthrew them.
Isa 13:20 It will never be inhabited or lived in for all generations; no Arab will pitch his tent there; no shepherds
will make their flocks lie down there.
Isa 13:21 But wild animals will lie down there, and their houses will be full of howling creatures; there ostriches
will dwell, and there wild goats will dance.
Isa 13:22 Hyenas will cry in its towers, and jackals in the pleasant palaces; its time is close at hand and its days
will not be prolonged.
Isa 14:1 For the LORD will have compassion on Jacob and will again choose Israel, and will set them in their
own land, and sojourners will join them and will attach themselves to the house of Jacob.
Isa 14:2 And the peoples will take them and bring them to their place, and the house of Israel will possess them
in the LORD's land as male and female slaves. They will take captive those who were their captors, and rule
over those who oppressed them.
Isa 14:3 When the LORD has given you rest from your pain and turmoil and the hard service with which you
were made to serve,
Isa 14:4 you will take up this taunt against the king of Babylon: "How the oppressor has ceased, the insolent
fury ceased!
Isa 14:5 The LORD has broken the staff of the wicked, the scepter of rulers,
Isa 14:6 that struck the peoples in wrath with unceasing blows, that ruled the nations in anger with unrelenting
persecution.
Isa 14:7 The whole earth is at rest and quiet; they break forth into singing.
Isa 14:8 The cypresses rejoice at you, the cedars of Lebanon, saying, 'Since you were laid low, no woodcutter
comes up against us.'
Isa 14:9 Sheol beneath is stirred up to meet you when you come; it rouses the shades to greet you, all who
were leaders of the earth; it raises from their thrones all who were kings of the nations.
Isa 14:10 All of them will answer and say to you: 'You too have become as weak as we! You have become like
us!'
Isa 14:11 Your pomp is brought down to Sheol, the sound of your harps; maggots are laid as a bed beneath
you, and worms are your covers.
Isa 14:12 "How you are fallen from heaven, O Day Star, son of Dawn! How you are cut down to the ground, you
who laid the nations low!
Isa 14:13 You said in your heart, 'I will ascend to heaven; above the stars of God I will set my throne on high; I
will sit on the mount of assembly in the far reaches of the north;
Isa 14:14 I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will make myself like the Most High.'
Isa 14:15 But you are brought down to Sheol, to the far reaches of the pit.
Isa 14:16 Those who see you will stare at you and ponder over you: 'Is this the man who made the earth
tremble, who shook kingdoms,
Isa 14:17 who made the world like a desert and overthrew its cities, who did not let his prisoners go home?'
Isa 14:18 All the kings of the nations lie in glory, each in his own tomb;
Isa 14:19 but you are cast out, away from your grave, like a loathed branch, clothed with the slain, those pierced
by the sword, who go down to the stones of the pit, like a dead body trampled underfoot.
Isa 14:20 You will not be joined with them in burial, because you have destroyed your land, you have slain your
people. "May the offspring of evildoers nevermore be named!
Isa 14:21 Prepare slaughter for his sons because of the guilt of their fathers, lest they rise and possess the
earth, and fill the face of the world with cities."
Isa 14:22 "I will rise up against them," declares the LORD of hosts, "and will cut off from Babylon name andremnant, descendants and posterity," says the LORD.
Isa 14:23 "And I will make it a possession of the hedgehog, and pools of water, and I will sweep it with the
broom of destruction," declares the LORD of hosts.
Isa 14:24 The LORD of hosts has sworn: "As I have planned, so shall it be, and as I have purposed, so shall it
stand,
Isa 14:25 that I will break the Assyrian in my land, and on my mountains trample him underfoot; and his yoke
shall depart from them, and his burden from their shoulder."
Isa 14:26 This is the purpose that is purposed concerning the whole earth, and this is the hand that is stretched
out over all the nations.
Isa 14:27 For the LORD of hosts has purposed, and who will annul it? His hand is stretched out, and who will
turn it back?
Isa 14:28 In the year that King Ahaz died came this oracle:
Isa 14:29 Rejoice not, O Philistia, all of you, that the rod that struck you is broken, for from the serpent's root will
come forth an adder, and its fruit will be a flying fiery serpent.
Isa 14:30 And the firstborn of the poor will graze, and the needy lie down in safety; but I will kill your root with
famine, and your remnant it will slay.
Isa 14:31 Wail, O gate; cry out, O city; melt in fear, O Philistia, all of you! For smoke comes out of the north, and
there is no straggler in his ranks.
Isa 14:32 What will one answer the messengers of the nation? "The LORD has founded Zion, and in her the
afflicted of his people find refuge."
Isa 15:1 An oracle concerning Moab. Because Ar of Moab is laid waste in a night, Moab is undone; because Kir
of Moab is laid waste in a night, Moab is undone.
Isa 15:2 He has gone up to the temple, and to Dibon, to the high places to weep; over Nebo and over Medeba
Moab wails. On every head is baldness; every beard is shorn;
Isa 15:3 in the streets they wear sackcloth; on the housetops and in the squares everyone wails and melts in
tears.
Isa 15:4 Heshbon and Elealeh cry out; their voice is heard as far as Jahaz; therefore the armed men of Moab
cry aloud; his soul trembles.
Isa 15:5 My heart cries out for Moab; her fugitives flee to Zoar, to Eglath-shelishiyah. For at the ascent of Luhith
they go up weeping; on the road to Horonaim they raise a cry of destruction;
Isa 15:6 the waters of Nimrim are a desolation; the grass is withered, the vegetation fails, the greenery is no
more.
Isa 15:7 Therefore the abundance they have gained and what they have laid up they carry away over the Brook
of the Willows.
Isa 15:8 For a cry has gone around the land of Moab; her wailing reaches to Eglaim; her wailing reaches to
Beer-elim.
Isa 15:9 For the waters of Dibon are full of blood; for I will bring upon Dibon even more, a lion for those of Moab
who escape, for the remnant of the land.
Isa 16:1 Send the lamb to the ruler of the land, from Sela, by way of the desert, to the mount of the daughter of
Zion.
Isa 16:2 Like fleeing birds, like a scattered nest, so are the daughters of Moab at the fords of the Arnon.
Isa 16:3 "Give counsel; grant justice; make your shade like night at the height of noon; shelter the outcasts; do
not reveal the fugitive;
Isa 16:4 let the outcasts of Moab sojourn among you; be a shelter to them from the destroyer. When the
oppressor is no more and destruction has ceased, and he who tramples underfoot has vanished from the land,
Isa 16:5 then a throne will be established in steadfast love, and on it will sit in faithfulness in the tent of David
one who judges and seeks justice and is swift to do righteousness."
Isa 16:6 We have heard of the pride of Moab- how proud he is!- of his arrogance, his pride, and his insolence; in
his idle boasting he is not right.
Isa 16:7 Therefore let Moab wail for Moab, let everyone wail. Mourn, utterly stricken, for the raisin cakes of Kirhareseth.
Isa 16:8 For the fields of Heshbon languish, and the vine of Sibmah; the lords of the nations have struck down
its branches, which reached to Jazer and strayed to the desert; its shoots spread abroad and passed over the
sea.
Isa 16:9 Therefore I weep with the weeping of Jazer for the vine of Sibmah; I drench you with my tears, O
Heshbon and Elealeh; for over your summer fruit and your harvest the shout has ceased.
Isa 16:10 And joy and gladness are taken away from the fruitful field, and in the vineyards no songs are sung,
no cheers are raised; no treader treads out wine in the presses; I have put an end to the shouting.
Isa 16:11 Therefore my inner parts moan like a lyre for Moab, and my inmost self for Kir-hareseth.Isa 16:12 And when Moab presents himself, when he wearies himself on the high place, when he comes to his
sanctuary to pray, he will not prevail.
Isa 16:13 This is the word that the LORD spoke concerning Moab in the past.
Isa 16:14 But now the LORD has spoken, saying, "In three years, like the years of a hired worker, the glory of
Moab will be brought into contempt, in spite of all his great multitude, and those who remain will be very few and
feeble."
Isa 17:1 An oracle concerning Damascus. Behold, Damascus will cease to be a city and will become a heap of
ruins.
Isa 17:2 The cities of Aroer are deserted; they will be for flocks, which will lie down, and none will make them
afraid.
Isa 17:3 The fortress will disappear from Ephraim, and the kingdom from Damascus; and the remnant of Syria
will be like the glory of the children of Israel, declares the LORD of hosts.
Isa 17:4 And in that day the glory of Jacob will be brought low, and the fat of his flesh will grow lean.
Isa 17:5 And it shall be as when the reaper gathers standing grain and his arm harvests the ears, and as when
one gleans the ears of grain in the Valley of Rephaim.
Isa 17:6 Gleanings will be left in it, as when an olive tree is beaten- two or three berries in the top of the highest
bough, four or five on the branches of a fruit tree, declares the LORD God of Israel.
Isa 17:7 In that day man will look to his Maker, and his eyes will look on the Holy One of Israel.
Isa 17:8 He will not look to the altars, the work of his hands, and he will not look on what his own fingers have
made, either the Asherim or the altars of incense.
Isa 17:9 In that day their strong cities will be like the deserted places of the wooded heights and the hilltops,
which they deserted because of the children of Israel, and there will be desolation.
Isa 17:10 For you have forgotten the God of your salvation and have not remembered the Rock of your refuge;
therefore, though you plant pleasant plants and sow the vine-branch of a stranger,
Isa 17:11 though you make them grow on the day that you plant them, and make them blossom in the morning
that you sow, yet the harvest will flee away in a day of grief and incurable pain.
Isa 17:12 Ah, the thunder of many peoples; they thunder like the thundering of the sea! Ah, the roar of nations;
they roar like the roaring of mighty waters!
Isa 17:13 The nations roar like the roaring of many waters, but he will rebuke them, and they will flee far away,
chased like chaff on the mountains before the wind and whirling dust before the storm.
Isa 17:14 At evening time, behold, terror! Before morning, they are no more! This is the portion of those who loot
us, and the lot of those who plunder us.
Isa 18:1 Ah, land of whirring wings that is beyond the rivers of Cush,
Isa 18:2 which sends ambassadors by the sea, in vessels of papyrus on the waters! Go, you swift messengers,
to a nation, tall and smooth, to a people feared near and far, a nation mighty and conquering, whose land the
rivers divide.
Isa 18:3 All you inhabitants of the world, you who dwell on the earth, when a signal is raised on the mountains,
look! When a trumpet is blown, hear!
Isa 18:4 For thus the LORD said to me: "I will quietly look from my dwelling like clear heat in sunshine, like a
cloud of dew in the heat of harvest."
Isa 18:5 For before the harvest, when the blossom is over, and the flower becomes a ripening grape, he cuts off
the shoots with pruning hooks, and the spreading branches he lops off and clears away.
Isa 18:6 They shall all of them be left to the birds of prey of the mountains and to the beasts of the earth. And
the birds of prey will summer on them, and all the beasts of the earth will winter on them.
Isa 18:7 At that time tribute will be brought to the LORD of hosts from a people tall and smooth, from a people
feared near and far, a nation mighty and conquering, whose land the rivers divide, to Mount Zion, the place of
the name of the LORD of hosts.
Isa 19:1 An oracle concerning Egypt. Behold, the LORD is riding on a swift cloud and comes to Egypt; and the
idols of Egypt will tremble at his presence, and the heart of the Egyptians will melt within them.
Isa 19:2 And I will stir up Egyptians against Egyptians, and they will fight, each against another and each
against his neighbor, city against city, kingdom against kingdom;
Isa 19:3 and the spirit of the Egyptians within them will be emptied out, and I will confound their counsel; and
they will inquire of the idols and the sorcerers, and the mediums and the necromancers;
Isa 19:4 and I will give over the Egyptians into the hand of a hard master, and a fierce king will rule over them,
declares the Lord GOD of hosts.
Isa 19:5 And the waters of the sea will be dried up, and the river will be dry and parched,
Isa 19:6 and its canals will become foul, and the branches of Egypt's Nile will diminish and dry up, reeds and
rushes will rot away.
Isa 19:7 There will be bare places by the Nile, on the brink of the Nile, and all that is sown by the Nile will beparched, will be driven away, and will be no more.
Isa 19:8 The fishermen will mourn and lament, all who cast a hook in the Nile; and they will languish who spread
nets on the water.
Isa 19:9 The workers in combed flax will be in despair, and the weavers of white cotton.
Isa 19:10 Those who are the pillars of the land will be crushed, and all who work for pay will be grieved.
Isa 19:11 The princes of Zoan are utterly foolish; the wisest counselors of Pharaoh give stupid counsel. How
can you say to Pharaoh, "I am a son of the wise, a son of ancient kings"?
Isa 19:12 Where then are your wise men? Let them tell you that they might know what the LORD of hosts has
purposed against Egypt.
Isa 19:13 The princes of Zoan have become fools, and the princes of Memphis are deluded; those who are the
cornerstones of her tribes have made Egypt stagger.
Isa 19:14 The LORD has mingled within her a spirit of confusion, and they will make Egypt stagger in all its
deeds, as a drunken man staggers in his vomit.
Isa 19:15 And there will be nothing for Egypt that head or tail, palm branch or reed, may do.
Isa 19:16 In that day the Egyptians will be like women, and tremble with fear before the hand that the LORD of
hosts shakes over them.
Isa 19:17 And the land of Judah will become a terror to the Egyptians. Everyone to whom it is mentioned will
fear because of the purpose that the LORD of hosts has purposed against them.
Isa 19:18 In that day there will be five cities in the land of Egypt that speak the language of Canaan and swear
allegiance to the LORD of hosts. One of these will be called the City of Destruction.
Isa 19:19 In that day there will be an altar to the LORD in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar to the
LORD at its border.
Isa 19:20 It will be a sign and a witness to the LORD of hosts in the land of Egypt. When they cry to the LORD
because of oppressors, he will send them a savior and defender, and deliver them.
Isa 19:21 And the LORD will make himself known to the Egyptians, and the Egyptians will know the LORD in
that day and worship with sacrifice and offering, and they will make vows to the LORD and perform them.
Isa 19:22 And the LORD will strike Egypt, striking and healing, and they will return to the LORD, and he will
listen to their pleas for mercy and heal them.
Isa 19:23 In that day there will be a highway from Egypt to Assyria, and Assyria will come into Egypt, and Egypt
into Assyria, and the Egyptians will worship with the Assyrians.
Isa 19:24 In that day Israel will be the third with Egypt and Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the earth,
Isa 19:25 whom the LORD of hosts has blessed, saying, "Blessed be Egypt my people, and Assyria the work of
my hands, and Israel my inheritance."
Isa 20:1 In the year that the commander in chief, who was sent by Sargon the king of Assyria, came to Ashdod
and fought against it and captured itIsa 20:2 at that time the LORD spoke by Isaiah the son of Amoz, saying, "Go, and loose the sackcloth from your
waist and take off your sandals from your feet," and he did so, walking naked and barefoot.
Isa 20:3 Then the LORD said, "As my servant Isaiah has walked naked and barefoot for three years as a sign
and a portent against Egypt and Cush,
Isa 20:4 so shall the king of Assyria lead away the Egyptian captives and the Cushite exiles, both the young and
the old, naked and barefoot, with buttocks uncovered, the nakedness of Egypt.
Isa 20:5 Then they shall be dismayed and ashamed because of Cush their hope and of Egypt their boast.
Isa 20:6 And the inhabitants of this coastland will say in that day, 'Behold, this is what has happened to those in
whom we hoped and to whom we fled for help to be delivered from the king of Assyria! And we, how shall we
escape?'"
Isa 21:1 The oracle concerning the wilderness of the sea. As whirlwinds in the Negeb sweep on, it comes from
the wilderness, from a terrible land.
Isa 21:2 A stern vision is told to me; the traitor betrays, and the destroyer destroys. Go up, O Elam; lay siege, O
Media; all the sighing she has caused I bring to an end.
Isa 21:3 Therefore my loins are filled with anguish; pangs have seized me, like the pangs of a woman in labor; I
am bowed down so that I cannot hear; I am dismayed so that I cannot see.
Isa 21:4 My heart staggers; horror has appalled me; the twilight I longed for has been turned for me into
trembling.
Isa 21:5 They prepare the table, they spread the rugs, they eat, they drink. Arise, O princes; oil the shield!
Isa 21:6 For thus the Lord said to me: "Go, set a watchman; let him announce what he sees.
Isa 21:7 When he sees riders, horsemen in pairs, riders on donkeys, riders on camels, let him listen diligently,
very diligently."
Isa 21:8 Then he who saw cried out: "Upon a watchtower I stand, O Lord, continually by day, and at my post I
am stationed whole nights.Isa 21:9 And behold, here come riders, horsemen in pairs!" And he answered, "Fallen, fallen is Babylon; and all
the carved images of her gods he has shattered to the ground."
Isa 21:10 O my threshed and winnowed one, what I have heard from the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, I
announce to you.
Isa 21:11 The oracle concerning Dumah. One is calling to me from Seir, "Watchman, what time of the night?
Watchman, what time of the night?"
Isa 21:12 The watchman says: "Morning comes, and also the night. If you will inquire, inquire; come back
again."
Isa 21:13 The oracle concerning Arabia. In the thickets in Arabia you will lodge, O caravans of Dedanites.
Isa 21:14 To the thirsty bring water; meet the fugitive with bread, O inhabitants of the land of Tema.
Isa 21:15 For they have fled from the swords, from the drawn sword, from the bent bow, and from the press of
battle.
Isa 21:16 For thus the Lord said to me, "Within a year, according to the years of a hired worker, all the glory of
Kedar will come to an end.
Isa 21:17 And the remainder of the archers of the mighty men of the sons of Kedar will be few, for the LORD,
the God of Israel, has spoken."
Isa 22:1 The oracle concerning the valley of vision. What do you mean that you have gone up, all of you, to the
housetops,
Isa 22:2 you who are full of shoutings, tumultuous city, exultant town? Your slain are not slain with the sword or
dead in battle.
Isa 22:3 All your leaders have fled together; without the bow they were captured. All of you who were found
were captured, though they had fled far away.
Isa 22:4 Therefore I said: "Look away from me; let me weep bitter tears; do not labor to comfort me concerning
the destruction of the daughter of my people."
Isa 22:5 For the Lord GOD of hosts has a day of tumult and trampling and confusion in the valley of vision, a
battering down of walls and a shouting to the mountains.
Isa 22:6 And Elam bore the quiver with chariots and horsemen, and Kir uncovered the shield.
Isa 22:7 Your choicest valleys were full of chariots, and the horsemen took their stand at the gates.
Isa 22:8 He has taken away the covering of Judah. In that day you looked to the weapons of the House of the
Forest,
Isa 22:9 and you saw that the breaches of the city of David were many. You collected the waters of the lower
pool,
Isa 22:10 and you counted the houses of Jerusalem, and you broke down the houses to fortify the wall.
Isa 22:11 You made a reservoir between the two walls for the water of the old pool. But you did not look to him
who did it, or see him who planned it long ago.
Isa 22:12 In that day the Lord GOD of hosts called for weeping and mourning, for baldness and wearing
sackcloth;
Isa 22:13 and behold, joy and gladness, killing oxen and slaughtering sheep, eating flesh and drinking wine.
"Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die."
Isa 22:14 The LORD of hosts has revealed himself in my ears: "Surely this iniquity will not be atoned for you
until you die," says the Lord GOD of hosts.
Isa 22:15 Thus says the Lord GOD of hosts, "Come, go to this steward, to Shebna, who is over the household,
and say to him:
Isa 22:16 What have you to do here, and whom have you here, that you have cut out here a tomb for yourself,
you who cut out a tomb on the height and carve a dwelling for yourself in the rock?
Isa 22:17 Behold, the LORD will hurl you away violently, O you strong man. He will seize firm hold on you
Isa 22:18 and whirl you around and around, and throw you like a ball into a wide land. There you shall die, and
there shall be your glorious chariots, you shame of your master's house.
Isa 22:19 I will thrust you from your office, and you will be pulled down from your station.
Isa 22:20 In that day I will call my servant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah,
Isa 22:21 and I will clothe him with your robe, and will bind your sash on him, and will commit your authority to
his hand. And he shall be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and to the house of Judah.
Isa 22:22 And I will place on his shoulder the key of the house of David. He shall open, and none shall shut; and
he shall shut, and none shall open.
Isa 22:23 And I will fasten him like a peg in a secure place, and he will become a throne of honor to his father's
house.
Isa 22:24 And they will hang on him the whole honor of his father's house, the offspring and issue, every small
vessel, from the cups to all the flagons.
Isa 22:25 In that day, declares the LORD of hosts, the peg that was fastened in a secure place will give way,and it will be cut down and fall, and the load that was on it will be cut off, for the LORD has spoken."
Isa 23:1 The oracle concerning Tyre. Wail, O ships of Tarshish, for Tyre is laid waste, without house or harbor!
From the land of Cyprus it is revealed to them.
Isa 23:2 Be still, O inhabitants of the coast; the merchants of Sidon, who cross the sea, have filled you.
Isa 23:3 And on many waters your revenue was the grain of Shihor, the harvest of the Nile; you were the
merchant of the nations.
Isa 23:4 Be ashamed, O Sidon, for the sea has spoken, the stronghold of the sea, saying: "I have neither
labored nor given birth, I have neither reared young men nor brought up young women."
Isa 23:5 When the report comes to Egypt, they will be in anguish over the report about Tyre.
Isa 23:6 Cross over to Tarshish; wail, O inhabitants of the coast!
Isa 23:7 Is this your exultant city whose origin is from days of old, whose feet carried her to settle far away?
Isa 23:8 Who has purposed this against Tyre, the bestower of crowns, whose merchants were princes, whose
traders were the honored of the earth?
Isa 23:9 The LORD of hosts has purposed it, to defile the pompous pride of all glory, to dishonor all the honored
of the earth.
Isa 23:10 Cross over your land like the Nile, O daughter of Tarshish; there is no restraint anymore.
Isa 23:11 He has stretched out his hand over the sea; he has shaken the kingdoms; the LORD has given
command concerning Canaan to destroy its strongholds.
Isa 23:12 And he said: "You will no more exult, O oppressed virgin daughter of Sidon; arise, cross over to
Cyprus, even there you will have no rest."
Isa 23:13 Behold the land of the Chaldeans! This is the people that was not; Assyria destined it for wild beasts.
They erected their siege towers, they stripped her palaces bare, they made her a ruin.
Isa 23:14 Wail, O ships of Tarshish, for your stronghold is laid waste.
Isa 23:15 In that day Tyre will be forgotten for seventy years, like the days of one king. At the end of seventy
years, it will happen to Tyre as in the song of the prostitute:
Isa 23:16 "Take a harp; go about the city, O forgotten prostitute! Make sweet melody; sing many songs, that you
may be remembered."
Isa 23:17 At the end of seventy years, the LORD will visit Tyre, and she will return to her wages and will
prostitute herself with all the kingdoms of the world on the face of the earth.
Isa 23:18 Her merchandise and her wages will be holy to the LORD. It will not be stored or hoarded, but her
merchandise will supply abundant food and fine clothing for those who dwell before the LORD.
Isa 24:1 Behold, the LORD will empty the earth and make it desolate, and he will twist its surface and scatter its
inhabitants.
Isa 24:2 And it shall be, as with the people, so with the priest; as with the slave, so with his master; as with the
maid, so with her mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the lender, so with the borrower; as with
the creditor, so with the debtor.
Isa 24:3 The earth shall be utterly empty and utterly plundered; for the LORD has spoken this word.
Isa 24:4 The earth mourns and withers; the world languishes and withers; the highest people of the earth
languish.
Isa 24:5 The earth lies defiled under its inhabitants; for they have transgressed the laws, violated the statutes,
broken the everlasting covenant.
Isa 24:6 Therefore a curse devours the earth, and its inhabitants suffer for their guilt; therefore the inhabitants of
the earth are scorched, and few men are left.
Isa 24:7 The wine mourns, the vine languishes, all the merry-hearted sigh.
Isa 24:8 The mirth of the tambourines is stilled, the noise of the jubilant has ceased, the mirth of the lyre is
stilled.
Isa 24:9 No more do they drink wine with singing; strong drink is bitter to those who drink it.
Isa 24:10 The wasted city is broken down; every house is shut up so that none can enter.
Isa 24:11 There is an outcry in the streets for lack of wine; all joy has grown dark; the gladness of the earth is
banished.
Isa 24:12 Desolation is left in the city; the gates are battered into ruins.
Isa 24:13 For thus it shall be in the midst of the earth among the nations, as when an olive tree is beaten, as at
the gleaning when the grape harvest is done.
Isa 24:14 They lift up their voices, they sing for joy; over the majesty of the LORD they shout from the west.
Isa 24:15 Therefore in the east give glory to the LORD; in the coastlands of the sea, give glory to the name of
the LORD, the God of Israel.
Isa 24:16 From the ends of the earth we hear songs of praise, of glory to the Righteous One. But I say, "I waste
away, I waste away. Woe is me! For the traitors have betrayed, with betrayal the traitors have betrayed."
Isa 24:17 Terror and the pit and the snare are upon you, O inhabitant of the earth!Isa 24:18 He who flees at the sound of the terror shall fall into the pit, and he who climbs out of the pit shall be
caught in the snare. For the windows of heaven are opened, and the foundations of the earth tremble.
Isa 24:19 The earth is utterly broken, the earth is split apart, the earth is violently shaken.
Isa 24:20 The earth staggers like a drunken man; it sways like a hut; its transgression lies heavy upon it, and it
falls, and will not rise again.
Isa 24:21 On that day the LORD will punish the host of heaven, in heaven, and the kings of the earth, on the
earth.
Isa 24:22 They will be gathered together as prisoners in a pit; they will be shut up in a prison, and after many
days they will be punished.
Isa 24:23 Then the moon will be confounded and the sun ashamed, for the LORD of hosts reigns on Mount Zion
and in Jerusalem, and his glory will be before his elders.
Isa 25:1 O LORD, you are my God;I will exalt you; I will praise your name, for you have done wonderful things,
plans formed of old, faithful and sure.
Isa 25:2 For you have made the city a heap, the fortified city a ruin; the foreigners' palace is a city no more; it
will never be rebuilt.
Isa 25:3 Therefore strong peoples will glorify you; cities of ruthless nations will fear you.
Isa 25:4 For you have been a stronghold to the poor, a stronghold to the needy in his distress, a shelter from the
storm and a shade from the heat; for the breath of the ruthless is like a storm against a wall,
Isa 25:5 like heat in a dry place. You subdue the noise of the foreigners; as heat by the shade of a cloud, so the
song of the ruthless is put down.
Isa 25:6 On this mountain the LORD of hosts will make for all peoples a feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged
wine, of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined.
Isa 25:7 And he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that is cast over all peoples, the veil that is spread
over all nations.
Isa 25:8 He will swallow up death forever; and the Lord GOD will wipe away tears from all faces, and the
reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth, for the LORD has spoken.
Isa 25:9 It will be said on that day, "Behold, this is our God; we have waited for him, that he might save us. This
is the LORD; we have waited for him; let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation."
Isa 25:10 For the hand of the LORD will rest on this mountain, and Moab shall be trampled down in his place, as
straw is trampled down in a dunghill.
Isa 25:11 And he will spread out his hands in the midst of it as a swimmer spreads his hands out to swim, but
the LORD will lay low his pompous pride together with the skill of his hands.
Isa 25:12 And the high fortifications of his walls he will bring down, lay low, and cast to the ground, to the dust.
Isa 26:1 In that day this song will be sung in the land of Judah: "We have a strong city; he sets up salvation as
walls and bulwarks.
Isa 26:2 Open the gates, that the righteous nation that keeps faith may enter in.
Isa 26:3 You keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you, because he trusts in you.
Isa 26:4 Trust in the LORD forever, for the LORD GOD is an everlasting rock.
Isa 26:5 For he has humbled the inhabitants of the height, the lofty city. He lays it low, lays it low to the ground,
casts it to the dust.
Isa 26:6 The foot tramples it, the feet of the poor, the steps of the needy."
Isa 26:7 The path of the righteous is level; you make level the way of the righteous.
Isa 26:8 In the path of your judgments, O LORD, we wait for you; your name and remembrance are the desire of
our soul.
Isa 26:9 My soul yearns for you in the night; my spirit within me earnestly seeks you. For when your judgments
are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness.
Isa 26:10 If favor is shown to the wicked, he does not learn righteousness; in the land of uprightness he deals
corruptly and does not see the majesty of the LORD.
Isa 26:11 O LORD, your hand is lifted up, but they do not see it. Let them see your zeal for your people, and be
ashamed. Let the fire for your adversaries consume them.
Isa 26:12 O LORD, you will ordain peace for us; you have done for us all our works.
Isa 26:13 O LORD our God, other lords besides you have ruled over us, but your name alone we bring to
remembrance.
Isa 26:14 They are dead, they will not live; they are shades, they will not arise; to that end you have visited them
with destruction and wiped out all remembrance of them.
Isa 26:15 But you have increased the nation, O LORD, you have increased the nation; you are glorified; you
have enlarged all the borders of the land.
Isa 26:16 O LORD, in distress they sought you; they poured out a whispered prayer when your discipline was
upon them.Isa 26:17 Like a pregnant woman who writhes and cries out in her pangs when she is near to giving birth, so
were we because of you, O LORD;
Isa 26:18 we were pregnant, we writhed, but we have given birth to wind. We have accomplished no
deliverance in the earth, and the inhabitants of the world have not fallen.
Isa 26:19 Your dead shall live; their bodies shall rise. You who dwell in the dust, awake and sing for joy! For
your dew is a dew of light, and the earth will give birth to the dead.
Isa 26:20 Come, my people, enter your chambers, and shut your doors behind you; hide yourselves for a little
while until the fury has passed by.
Isa 26:21 For behold, the LORD is coming out from his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their
iniquity, and the earth will disclose the blood shed on it, and will no more cover its slain.
Isa 27:1 In that day the LORD with his hard and great and strong sword will punish Leviathan the fleeing
serpent, Leviathan the twisting serpent, and he will slay the dragon that is in the sea.
Isa 27:2 In that day, "A pleasant vineyard, sing of it!
Isa 27:3 I, the LORD, am its keeper; every moment I water it. Lest anyone punish it, I keep it night and day;
Isa 27:4 I have no wrath. Would that I had thorns and briers to battle! I would march against them, I would burn
them up together.
Isa 27:5 Or let them lay hold of my protection, let them make peace with me, let them make peace with me."
Isa 27:6 In days to come Jacob shall take root, Israel shall blossom and put forth shoots and fill the whole world
with fruit.
Isa 27:7 Has he struck them as he struck those who struck them? Or have they been slain as their slayers were
slain?
Isa 27:8 Measure by measure, by exile you contended with them; he removed them with his fierce breath in the
day of the east wind.
Isa 27:9 Therefore by this the guilt of Jacob will be atoned for, and this will be the full fruit of the removal of his
sin: when he makes all the stones of the altars like chalkstones crushed to pieces, no Asherim or incense altars
will remain standing.
Isa 27:10 For the fortified city is solitary, a habitation deserted and forsaken, like the wilderness; there the calf
grazes; there it lies down and strips its branches.
Isa 27:11 When its boughs are dry, they are broken; women come and make a fire of them. For this is a people
without discernment; therefore he who made them will not have compassion on them; he who formed them will
show them no favor.
Isa 27:12 In that day from the river Eu-phrates to the Brook of Egypt the LORD will thresh out the grain, and you
will be gleaned one by one, O people of Israel.
Isa 27:13 And in that day a great trumpet will be blown, and those who were lost in the land of Assyria and
those who were driven out to the land of Egypt will come and worship the LORD on the holy mountain at
Jerusalem.
Isa 28:1 Ah, the proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim, and the fading flower of its glorious beauty, which is
on the head of the rich valley of those overcome with wine!
Isa 28:2 Behold, the Lord has one who is mighty and strong; like a storm of hail, a destroying tempest, like a
storm of mighty, overflowing waters, he casts down to the earth with his hand.
Isa 28:3 The proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim will be trodden underfoot;
Isa 28:4 and the fading flower of its glorious beauty, which is on the head of the rich valley, will be like a first-ripe
fig before the summer: when someone sees it, he swallows it as soon as it is in his hand.
Isa 28:5 In that day the LORD of hosts will be a crown of glory, and a diadem of beauty, to the remnant of his
people,
Isa 28:6 and a spirit of justice to him who sits in judgment, and strength to those who turn back the battle at the
gate.
Isa 28:7 These also reel with wine and stagger with strong drink; the priest and the prophet reel with strong
drink, they are swallowed by wine, they stagger with strong drink, they reel in vision, they stumble in giving
judgment.
Isa 28:8 For all tables are full of filthy vomit, with no space left.
Isa 28:9 "To whom will he teach knowledge, and to whom will he explain the message? Those who are weaned
from the milk, those taken from the breast?
Isa 28:10 For it is precept upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line, line upon line, here a little, there a
little."
Isa 28:11 For by people of strange lips and with a foreign tongue the LORD will speak to this people,
Isa 28:12 to whom he has said, "This is rest; give rest to the weary; and this is repose"; yet they would not hear.
Isa 28:13 And the word of the LORD will be to them precept upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line,
line upon line, here a little, there a little, that they may go, and fall backward, and be broken, and snared, andtaken.
Isa 28:14 Therefore hear the word of the LORD, you scoffers, who rule this people in Jerusalem!
Isa 28:15 Because you have said, "We have made a covenant with death, and with Sheol we have an
agreement, when the overwhelming whip passes through it will not come to us, for we have made lies our
refuge, and in falsehood we have taken shelter";
Isa 28:16 therefore thus says the Lord GOD, "Behold, I am the one who has laid as a foundation in Zion, a
stone, a tested stone, a precious cornerstone, of a sure foundation: 'Whoever believes will not be in haste.'
Isa 28:17 And I will make justice the line, and righteousness the plumb line; and hail will sweep away the refuge
of lies, and waters will overwhelm the shelter."
Isa 28:18 Then your covenant with death will be annulled, and your agreement with Sheol will not stand; when
the overwhelming scourge passes through, you will be beaten down by it.
Isa 28:19 As often as it passes through it will take you; for morning by morning it will pass through, by day and
by night; and it will be sheer terror to understand the message.
Isa 28:20 For the bed is too short to stretch oneself on, and the covering too narrow to wrap oneself in.
Isa 28:21 For the LORD will rise up as on Mount Perazim; as in the Valley of Gibeon he will be roused; to do his
deed- strange is his deed! and to work his work- alien is his work!
Isa 28:22 Now therefore do not scoff, lest your bonds be made strong; for I have heard a decree of destruction
from the Lord GOD of hosts against the whole land.
Isa 28:23 Give ear, and hear my voice; give attention, and hear my speech.
Isa 28:24 Does he who plows for sowing plow continually? does he continually open and harrow his ground?
Isa 28:25 When he has leveled its surface, does he not scatter dill, sow cumin, and put in wheat in rows and
barley in its proper place, and emmer as the border?
Isa 28:26 For he is rightly instructed; his God teaches him.
Isa 28:27 Dill is not threshed with a threshing sledge, nor is a cart wheel rolled over cumin, but dill is beaten out
with a stick, and cumin with a rod.
Isa 28:28 Does one crush grain for bread? No, he does not thresh it forever; when he drives his cart wheel over
it with his horses, he does not crush it.
Isa 28:29 This also comes from the LORD of hosts; he is wonderful in counsel and excellent in wisdom.
Isa 29:1 Ah, Ariel, Ariel,the city where David encamped! Add year to year; let the feasts run their round.
Isa 29:2 Yet I will distress Ariel, and there shall be moaning and lamentation, and she shall be to me like an
Ariel.
Isa 29:3 And I will encamp against you all around, and will besiege you with towers and I will raise siegeworks
against you.
Isa 29:4 And you will be brought low; from the earth you shall speak, and from the dust your speech will be
bowed down; your voice shall come from the ground like the voice of a ghost, and from the dust your speech
shall whisper.
Isa 29:5 But the multitude of your foreign foes shall be like small dust, and the multitude of the ruthless like
passing chaff. And in an instant, suddenly,
Isa 29:6 you will be visited by the LORD of hosts with thunder and with earthquake and great noise, with
whirlwind and tempest, and the flame of a devouring fire.
Isa 29:7 And the multitude of all the nations that fight against Ariel, all that fight against her and her stronghold
and distress her, shall be like a dream, a vision of the night.
Isa 29:8 As when a hungry man dreams he is eating and awakes with his hunger not satisfied, or as when a
thirsty man dreams he is drinking and awakes faint, with his thirst not quenched, so shall the multitude of all the
nations be that fight against Mount Zion.
Isa 29:9 Astonish yourselves and be astonished; blind yourselves and be blind! Be drunk, but not with wine;
stagger, but not with strong drink!
Isa 29:10 For the LORD has poured out upon you a spirit of deep sleep, and has closed your eyes (the
prophets), and covered your heads (the seers).
Isa 29:11 And the vision of all this has become to you like the words of a book that is sealed. When men give it
to one who can read, saying, "Read this," he says, "I cannot, for it is sealed."
Isa 29:12 And when they give the book to one who cannot read, saying, "Read this," he says, "I cannot read."
Isa 29:13 And the Lord said: "Because this people draw near with their mouth and honor me with their lips, while
their hearts are far from me, and their fear of me is a commandment taught by men,
Isa 29:14 therefore, behold, I will again do wonderful things with this people, with wonder upon wonder; and the
wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the discernment of their discerning men shall be hidden."
Isa 29:15 Ah, you who hide deep from the LORD your counsel, whose deeds are in the dark, and who say,
"Who sees us? Who knows us?"
Isa 29:16 You turn things upside down! Shall the potter be regarded as the clay, that the thing made should sayof its maker, "He did not make me"; or the thing formed say of him who formed it, "He has no understanding"?
Isa 29:17 Is it not yet a very little while until Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field shall
be regarded as a forest?
Isa 29:18 In that day the deaf shall hear the words of a book, and out of their gloom and darkness the eyes of
the blind shall see.
Isa 29:19 The meek shall obtain fresh joy in the LORD, and the poor among mankind shall exult in the Holy One
of Israel.
Isa 29:20 For the ruthless shall come to nothing and the scoffer cease, and all who watch to do evil shall be cut
off,
Isa 29:21 who by a word make a man out to be an offender, and lay a snare for him who reproves in the gate,
and with an empty plea turn aside him who is in the right.
Isa 29:22 Therefore thus says the LORD, who redeemed Abraham, concerning the house of Jacob: "Jacob shall
no more be ashamed, no more shall his face grow pale.
Isa 29:23 For when he sees his children, the work of my hands, in his midst, they will sanctify my name; they will
sanctify the Holy One of Jacob and will stand in awe of the God of Israel.
Isa 29:24 And those who go astray in spirit will come to understanding, and those who murmur will accept
instruction."
Isa 30:1 "Ah, stubborn children," declares the LORD, "who carry out a plan, but not mine, and who make an
alliance, but not of my Spirit, that they may add sin to sin;
Isa 30:2 who set out to go down to Egypt, without asking for my direction, to take refuge in the protection of
Pharaoh and to seek shelter in the shadow of Egypt!
Isa 30:3 Therefore shall the protection of Pharaoh turn to your shame, and the shelter in the shadow of Egypt to
your humiliation.
Isa 30:4 For though his officials are at Zoan and his envoys reach Hanes,
Isa 30:5 everyone comes to shame through a people that cannot profit them, that brings neither help nor profit,
but shame and disgrace."
Isa 30:6 An oracle on the beasts of the Negeb. Through a land of trouble and anguish, from where come the
lioness and the lion, the adder and the flying fiery serpent, they carry their riches on the backs of donkeys, and
their treasures on the humps of camels, to a people that cannot profit them.
Isa 30:7 Egypt's help is worthless and empty; therefore I have called her "Rahab who sits still."
Isa 30:8 And now, go, write it before them on a tablet and inscribe it in a book, that it may be for the time to
come as a witness forever.
Isa 30:9 For they are a rebellious people, lying children, children unwilling to hear the instruction of the LORD;
Isa 30:10 who say to the seers, "Do not see," and to the prophets, "Do not prophesy to us what is right; speak to
us smooth things, prophesy illusions,
Isa 30:11 leave the way, turn aside from the path, let us hear no more about the Holy One of Israel."
Isa 30:12 Therefore thus says the Holy One of Israel, "Because you despise this word and trust in oppression
and perverseness and rely on them,
Isa 30:13 therefore this iniquity shall be to you like a breach in a high wall, bulging out, and about to collapse,
whose breaking comes suddenly, in an instant;
Isa 30:14 and its breaking is like that of a potter's vessel that is smashed so ruthlessly that among its fragments
not a shard is found with which to take fire from the hearth, or to dip up water out of the cistern."
Isa 30:15 For thus said the Lord GOD, the Holy One of Israel, "In returning and rest you shall be saved; in
quietness and in trust shall be your strength." But you were unwilling,
Isa 30:16 and you said, "No! We will flee upon horses"; therefore you shall flee away; and, "We will ride upon
swift steeds"; therefore your pursuers shall be swift.
Isa 30:17 A thousand shall flee at the threat of one; at the threat of five you shall flee, till you are left like a
flagstaff on the top of a mountain, like a signal on a hill.
Isa 30:18 Therefore the LORD waits to be gracious to you, and therefore he exalts himself to show mercy to
you. For the LORD is a God of justice; blessed are all those who wait for him.
Isa 30:19 For a people shall dwell in Zion, in Jerusalem; you shall weep no more. He will surely be gracious to
you at the sound of your cry. As soon as he hears it, he answers you.
Isa 30:20 And though the Lord give you the bread of adversity and the water of affliction, yet your Teacher will
not hide himself anymore, but your eyes shall see your Teacher.
Isa 30:21 And your ears shall hear a word behind you, saying, "This is the way, walk in it," when you turn to the
right or when you turn to the left.
Isa 30:22 Then you will defile your carved idols overlaid with silver and your gold-plated metal images. You will
scatter them as unclean things. You will say to them, "Be gone!"
Isa 30:23 And he will give rain for the seed with which you sow the ground, and bread, the produce of theground, which will be rich and plenteous. In that day your livestock will graze in large pastures,
Isa 30:24 and the oxen and the donkeys that work the ground will eat seasoned fodder, which has been
winnowed with shovel and fork.
Isa 30:25 And on every lofty mountain and every high hill there will be brooks running with water, in the day of
the great slaughter, when the towers fall.
Isa 30:26 Moreover, the light of the moon will be as the light of the sun, and the light of the sun will be
sevenfold, as the light of seven days, in the day when the LORD binds up the brokenness of his people, and
heals the wounds inflicted by his blow.
Isa 30:27 Behold, the name of the LORD comes from far, burning with his anger, and in thick rising smoke; his
lips are full of fury, and his tongue is like a devouring fire;
Isa 30:28 his breath is like an overflowing stream that reaches up to the neck; to sift the nations with the sieve of
destruction, and to place on the jaws of the peoples a bridle that leads astray.
Isa 30:29 You shall have a song as in the night when a holy feast is kept, and gladness of heart, as when one
sets out to the sound of the flute to go to the mountain of the LORD, to the Rock of Israel.
Isa 30:30 And the LORD will cause his majestic voice to be heard and the descending blow of his arm to be
seen, in furious anger and a flame of devouring fire, with a cloudburst and storm and hailstones.
Isa 30:31 The Assyrians will be terror-stricken at the voice of the LORD, when he strikes with his rod.
Isa 30:32 And every stroke of the appointed staff that the LORD lays on them will be to the sound of
tambourines and lyres. Battling with brandished arm, he will fight with them.
Isa 30:33 For a burning place has long been prepared; indeed, for the king it is made ready, its pyre made deep
and wide, with fire and wood in abundance; the breath of the LORD, like a stream of sulfur, kindles it.
Isa 31:1 Woe to those who go down to Egypt for help and rely on horses, who trust in chariots because they are
many and in horsemen because they are very strong, but do not look to the Holy One of Israel or consult the
LORD!
Isa 31:2 And yet he is wise and brings disaster; he does not call back his words, but will arise against the house
of the evildoers and against the helpers of those who work iniquity.
Isa 31:3 The Egyptians are man, and not God, and their horses are flesh, and not spirit. When the LORD
stretches out his hand, the helper will stumble, and he who is helped will fall, and they will all perish together.
Isa 31:4 For thus the LORD said to me, "As a lion or a young lion growls over his prey, and when a band of
shepherds is called out against him is not terrified by their shouting or daunted at their noise, so the LORD of
hosts will come down to fight on Mount Zion and on its hill.
Isa 31:5 Like birds hovering, so the LORD of hosts will protect Jerusalem; he will protect and deliver it; he will
spare and rescue it."
Isa 31:6 Turn to him from whom people have deeply revolted, O children of Israel.
Isa 31:7 For in that day everyone shall cast away his idols of silver and his idols of gold, which your hands have
sinfully made for you.
Isa 31:8 "And the Assyrian shall fall by a sword, not of man; and a sword, not of man, shall devour him; and he
shall flee from the sword, and his young men shall be put to forced labor.
Isa 31:9 His rock shall pass away in terror, and his officers desert the standard in panic," declares the LORD,
whose fire is in Zion, and whose furnace is in Jerusalem.
Isa 32:1 Behold, a king will reign in righteousness, and princes will rule in justice.
Isa 32:2 Each will be like a hiding place from the wind, a shelter from the storm, like streams of water in a dry
place, like the shade of a great rock in a weary land.
Isa 32:3 Then the eyes of those who see will not be closed, and the ears of those who hear will give attention.
Isa 32:4 The heart of the hasty will understand and know, and the tongue of the stammerers will hasten to
speak distinctly.
Isa 32:5 The fool will no more be called noble, nor the scoundrel said to be honorable.
Isa 32:6 For the fool speaks folly, and his heart is busy with iniquity, to practice ungodliness, to utter error
concerning the LORD, to leave the craving of the hungry unsatisfied, and to deprive the thirsty of drink.
Isa 32:7 As for the scoundrel- his devices are evil; he plans wicked schemes to ruin the poor with lying words,
even when the plea of the needy is right.
Isa 32:8 But he who is noble plans noble things, and on noble things he stands.
Isa 32:9 Rise up, you women who are at ease, hear my voice; you complacent daughters, give ear to my
speech.
Isa 32:10 In little more than a year you will shudder, you complacent women; for the grape harvest fails, the fruit
harvest will not come.
Isa 32:11 Tremble, you women who are at ease, shudder, you complacent ones; strip, and make yourselves
bare, and tie sackcloth around your waist.
Isa 32:12 Beat your breasts for the pleasant fields, for the fruitful vine,Isa 32:13 for the soil of my people growing up in thorns and briers, yes, for all the joyous houses in the exultant
city.
Isa 32:14 For the palace is forsaken, the populous city deserted; the hill and the watchtower will become dens
forever, a joy of wild donkeys, a pasture of flocks;
Isa 32:15 until the Spirit is poured upon us from on high, and the wilderness becomes a fruitful field, and the
fruitful field is deemed a forest.
Isa 32:16 Then justice will dwell in the wilderness, and righteousness abide in the fruitful field.
Isa 32:17 And the effect of righteousness will be peace, and the result of righteousness, quietness and trust
forever.
Isa 32:18 My people will abide in a peaceful habitation, in secure dwellings, and in quiet resting places.
Isa 32:19 And it will hail when the forest falls down, and the city will be utterly laid low.
Isa 32:20 Happy are you who sow beside all waters, who let the feet of the ox and the donkey range free.
Isa 33:1 Ah, you destroyer,who yourself have not been destroyed, you traitor, whom none has betrayed! When
you have ceased to destroy, you will be destroyed; and when you have finished betraying, they will betray you.
Isa 33:2 O LORD, be gracious to us; we wait for you. Be our arm every morning, our salvation in the time of
trouble.
Isa 33:3 At the tumultuous noise peoples flee; when you lift yourself up, nations are scattered,
Isa 33:4 and your spoil is gathered as the caterpillar gathers; as locusts leap, it is leapt upon.
Isa 33:5 The LORD is exalted, for he dwells on high; he will fill Zion with justice and righteousness,
Isa 33:6 and he will be the stability of your times, abundance of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge; the fear of
the LORD is Zion's treasure.
Isa 33:7 Behold, their heroes cry in the streets; the envoys of peace weep bitterly.
Isa 33:8 The highways lie waste; the traveler ceases. Covenants are broken; cities are despised; there is no
regard for man.
Isa 33:9 The land mourns and languishes; Lebanon is confounded and withers away; Sharon is like a desert,
and Bashan and Carmel shake off their leaves.
Isa 33:10 "Now I will arise," says the LORD, "now I will lift myself up; now I will be exalted.
Isa 33:11 You conceive chaff; you give birth to stubble; your breath is a fire that will consume you.
Isa 33:12 And the peoples will be as if burned to lime, like thorns cut down, that are burned in the fire."
Isa 33:13 Hear, you who are far off, what I have done; and you who are near, acknowledge my might.
Isa 33:14 The sinners in Zion are afraid; trembling has seized the godless: "Who among us can dwell with the
consuming fire? Who among us can dwell with everlasting burnings?"
Isa 33:15 He who walks righteously and speaks uprightly, who despises the gain of oppressions, who shakes
his hands, lest they hold a bribe, who stops his ears from hearing of bloodshed and shuts his eyes from looking
on evil,
Isa 33:16 he will dwell on the heights; his place of defense will be the fortresses of rocks; his bread will be given
him; his water will be sure.
Isa 33:17 Your eyes will behold the king in his beauty; they will see a land that stretches afar.
Isa 33:18 Your heart will muse on the terror: "Where is he who counted, where is he who weighed the tribute?
Where is he who counted the towers?"
Isa 33:19 You will see no more the insolent people, the people of an obscure speech that you cannot
comprehend, stammering in a tongue that you cannot understand.
Isa 33:20 Behold Zion, the city of our appointed feasts! Your eyes will see Jerusalem, an untroubled habitation,
an immovable tent, whose stakes will never be plucked up, nor will any of its cords be broken.
Isa 33:21 But there the LORD in majesty will be for us a place of broad rivers and streams, where no galley with
oars can go, nor majestic ship can pass.
Isa 33:22 For the LORD is our judge; the LORD is our lawgiver; the LORD is our king; he will save us.
Isa 33:23 Your cords hang loose; they cannot hold the mast firm in its place or keep the sail spread out. Then
prey and spoil in abundance will be divided; even the lame will take the prey.
Isa 33:24 And no inhabitant will say, "I am sick"; the people who dwell there will be forgiven their iniquity.
Isa 34:1 Draw near, O nations, to hear,and give attention, O peoples! Let the earth hear, and all that fills it; the
world, and all that comes from it.
Isa 34:2 For the LORD is enraged against all the nations, and furious against all their host; he has devoted them
to destruction, has given them over for slaughter.
Isa 34:3 Their slain shall be cast out, and the stench of their corpses shall rise; the mountains shall flow with
their blood.
Isa 34:4 All the host of heaven shall rot away, and the skies roll up like a scroll. All their host shall fall, as leaves
fall from the vine, like leaves falling from the fig tree.
Isa 34:5 For my sword has drunk its fill in the heavens; behold, it descends for judgment upon Edom, upon thepeople I have devoted to destruction.
Isa 34:6 The LORD has a sword; it is sated with blood; it is gorged with fat, with the blood of lambs and goats,
with the fat of the kidneys of rams. For the LORD has a sacrifice in Bozrah, a great slaughter in the land of
Edom.
Isa 34:7 Wild oxen shall fall with them, and young steers with the mighty bulls. Their land shall drink its fill of
blood, and their soil shall be gorged with fat.
Isa 34:8 For the LORD has a day of vengeance, a year of recompense for the cause of Zion.
Isa 34:9 And the streams of Edom shall be turned into pitch, and her soil into sulfur; her land shall become
burning pitch.
Isa 34:10 Night and day it shall not be quenched; its smoke shall go up forever. From generation to generation it
shall lie waste; none shall pass through it forever and ever.
Isa 34:11 But the hawk and the porcupine shall possess it, the owl and the raven shall dwell in it. He shall
stretch the line of confusion over it, and the plumb line of emptiness.
Isa 34:12 Its nobles- there is no one there to call it a kingdom, and all its princes shall be nothing.
Isa 34:13 Thorns shall grow over its strongholds, nettles and thistles in its fortresses. It shall be the haunt of
jackals, an abode for ostriches.
Isa 34:14 And wild animals shall meet with hyenas; the wild goat shall cry to his fellow; indeed, there the night
bird settles and finds for herself a resting place.
Isa 34:15 There the owl nests and lays and hatches and gathers her young in her shadow; indeed, there the
hawks are gathered, each one with her mate.
Isa 34:16 Seek and read from the book of the LORD: Not one of these shall be missing; none shall be without
her mate. For the mouth of the LORD has commanded, and his Spirit has gathered them.
Isa 34:17 He has cast the lot for them; his hand has portioned it out to them with the line; they shall possess it
forever; from generation to generation they shall dwell in it.
Isa 35:1 The wilderness and the dry land shall be glad; the desert shall rejoice and blossom like the crocus;
Isa 35:2 it shall blossom abundantly and rejoice with joy and singing. The glory of Lebanon shall be given to it,
the majesty of Carmel and Sharon. They shall see the glory of the LORD, the majesty of our God.
Isa 35:3 Strengthen the weak hands, and make firm the feeble knees.
Isa 35:4 Say to those who have an anxious heart, "Be strong; fear not! Behold, your God will come with
vengeance, with the recompense of God. He will come and save you."
Isa 35:5 Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped;
Isa 35:6 then shall the lame man leap like a deer, and the tongue of the mute sing for joy. For waters break forth
in the wilderness, and streams in the desert;
Isa 35:7 the burning sand shall become a pool, and the thirsty ground springs of water; in the haunt of jackals,
where they lie down, the grass shall become reeds and rushes.
Isa 35:8 And a highway shall be there, and it shall be called the Way of Holiness; the unclean shall not pass
over it. It shall belong to those who walk on the way; even if they are fools, they shall not go astray.
Isa 35:9 No lion shall be there, nor shall any ravenous beast come up on it; they shall not be found there, but
the redeemed shall walk there.
Isa 35:10 And the ransomed of the LORD shall return and come to Zion with singing; everlasting joy shall be
upon their heads; they shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.
Isa 36:1 In the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified
cities of Judah and took them.
Isa 36:2 And the king of Assyria sent the Rabshakeh from Lachish to King Hezekiah at Jerusalem, with a great
army. And he stood by the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the Washer's Field.
Isa 36:3 And there came out to him Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the
secretary, and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder.
Isa 36:4 And the Rabshakeh said to them, "Say to Hezekiah, 'Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria: On
what do you rest this trust of yours?
Isa 36:5 Do you think that mere words are strategy and power for war? In whom do you now trust, that you have
rebelled against me?
Isa 36:6 Behold, you are trusting in Egypt, that broken reed of a staff, which will pierce the hand of any man who
leans on it. Such is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all who trust in him.
Isa 36:7 But if you say to me, "We trust in the LORD our God," is it not he whose high places and altars
Hezekiah has removed, saying to Judah and to Jerusalem, "You shall worship before this altar"?
Isa 36:8 Come now, make a wager with my master the king of Assyria: I will give you two thousand horses, if
you are able on your part to set riders on them.
Isa 36:9 How then can you repulse a single captain among the least of my master's servants, when you trust in
Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?Isa 36:10 Moreover, is it without the LORD that I have come up against this land to destroy it? The LORD said
to me, Go up against this land and destroy it.'"
Isa 36:11 Then Eliakim, Shebna, and Joah said to the Rabshakeh, "Please speak to your servants in Aramaic,
for we understand it. Do not speak to us in the language of Judah within the hearing of the people who are on
the wall."
Isa 36:12 But the Rabshakeh said, "Has my master sent me to speak these words to your master and to you,
and not to the men sitting on the wall, who are doomed with you to eat their own dung and drink their own
urine?"
Isa 36:13 Then the Rabshakeh stood and called out in a loud voice in the language of Judah: "Hear the words
of the great king, the king of Assyria!
Isa 36:14 Thus says the king: 'Do not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you.
Isa 36:15 Do not let Hezekiah make you trust in the LORD by saying, "The LORD will surely deliver us. This city
will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria."
Isa 36:16 Do not listen to Hezekiah. For thus says the king of Assyria: Make your peace with me and come out
to me. Then each one of you will eat of his own vine, and each one of his own fig tree, and each one of you will
drink the water of his own cistern,
Isa 36:17 until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of grain and wine, a land of bread
and vineyards.
Isa 36:18 Beware lest Hezekiah mislead you by saying, "The LORD will deliver us." Has any of the gods of the
nations delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria?
Isa 36:19 Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim? Have they delivered
Samaria out of my hand?
Isa 36:20 Who among all the gods of these lands have delivered their lands out of my hand, that the LORD
should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?'"
Isa 36:21 But they were silent and answered him not a word, for the king's command was, "Do not answer him."
Isa 36:22 Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and Joah
the son of Asaph, the recorder, came to Hezekiah with their clothes torn, and told him the words of the
Rabshakeh.
Isa 37:1 As soon as King Hezekiah heard it, he tore his clothes and covered himself with sackcloth and went
into the house of the LORD.
Isa 37:2 And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and the senior priests,
covered with sackcloth, to the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz.
Isa 37:3 They said to him, "Thus says Hezekiah, 'This day is a day of distress, of rebuke, and of disgrace;
children have come to the point of birth, and there is no strength to bring them forth.
Isa 37:4 It may be that the LORD your God will hear the words of the Rabshakeh, whom his master the king of
Assyria has sent to mock the living God, and will rebuke the words that the LORD your God has heard; therefore
lift up your prayer for the remnant that is left.'"
Isa 37:5 When the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah,
Isa 37:6 Isaiah said to them, "Say to your master, 'Thus says the LORD: Do not be afraid because of the words
that you have heard, with which the young men of the king of Assyria have reviled me.
Isa 37:7 Behold, I will put a spirit in him, so that he shall hear a rumor and return to his own land, and I will make
him fall by the sword in his own land.'"
Isa 37:8 The Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria fighting against Libnah, for he had heard that
the king had left Lachish.
Isa 37:9 Now the king heard concerning Tirhakah king of Cush, "He has set out to fight against you." And when
he heard it, he sent messengers to Hezekiah, saying,
Isa 37:10 "Thus shall you speak to Hezekiah king of Judah: 'Do not let your God in whom you trust deceive you
by promising that Jerusalem will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.
Isa 37:11 Behold, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, devoting them to
destruction. And shall you be delivered?
Isa 37:12 Have the gods of the nations delivered them, the nations that my fathers destroyed, Gozan, Haran,
Rezeph, and the people of Eden who were in Telassar?
Isa 37:13 Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, the king of the city of Sepharvaim, the king of Hena,
or the king of Ivvah?'"
Isa 37:14 Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messengers, and read it; and Hezekiah went up to
the house of the LORD, and spread it before the LORD.
Isa 37:15 And Hezekiah prayed to the LORD:
Isa 37:16 "O LORD of hosts, God of Israel, who is enthroned above the cherubim, you are the God, you alone,
of all the kingdoms of the earth; you have made heaven and earth.Isa 37:17 Incline your ear, O LORD, and hear; open your eyes, O LORD, and see; and hear all the words of
Sennacherib, which he has sent to mock the living God.
Isa 37:18 Truly, O LORD, the kings of Assyria have laid waste all the nations and their lands,
Isa 37:19 and have cast their gods into the fire. For they were no gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and
stone. Therefore they were destroyed.
Isa 37:20 So now, O LORD our God, save us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that
you alone are the LORD."
Isa 37:21 Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, "Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel:
Because you have prayed to me concerning Sennacherib king of Assyria,
Isa 37:22 this is the word that the LORD has spoken concerning him: "' She despises you, she scorns you- the
virgin daughter of Zion; she wags her head behind you- the daughter of Jerusalem.
Isa 37:23 "'Whom have you mocked and reviled? Against whom have you raised your voice and lifted your eyes
to the heights? Against the Holy One of Israel!
Isa 37:24 By your servants you have mocked the Lord, and you have said, With my many chariots I have gone
up the heights of the mountains, to the far recesses of Lebanon, to cut down its tallest cedars, its choicest
cypresses, to come to its remotest height, its most fruitful forest.
Isa 37:25 I dug wells and drank waters, to dry up with the sole of my foot all the streams of Egypt.
Isa 37:26 "'Have you not heard that I determined it long ago? I planned from days of old what now I bring to
pass, that you should make fortified cities crash into heaps of ruins,
Isa 37:27 while their inhabitants, shorn of strength, are dismayed and confounded, and have become like plants
of the field and like tender grass, like grass on the housetops, blighted before it is grown.
Isa 37:28 "'I know your sitting down and your going out and coming in, and your raging against me.
Isa 37:29 Because you have raged against me and your complacency has come to my ears, I will put my hook
in your nose and my bit in your mouth, and I will turn you back on the way by which you came.'
Isa 37:30 "And this shall be the sign for you: this year you shall eat what grows of itself, and in the second year
what springs from that. Then in the third year sow and reap, and plant vineyards, and eat their fruit.
Isa 37:31 And the surviving remnant of the house of Judah shall again take root downward and bear fruit
upward.
Isa 37:32 For out of Jerusalem shall go a remnant, and out of Mount Zion a band of survivors. The zeal of the
LORD of hosts will do this.
Isa 37:33 "Therefore thus says the LORD concerning the king of Assyria: He shall not come into this city or
shoot an arrow there or come before it with a shield or cast up a siege mound against it.
Isa 37:34 By the way that he came, by the same he shall return, and he shall not come into this city, declares
the LORD.
Isa 37:35 For I will defend this city to save it, for my own sake and for the sake of my servant David."
Isa 37:36 And the angel of the LORD went out and struck down a hundred and eighty-five thousand in the camp
of the Assyrians. And when people arose early in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies.
Isa 37:37 Then Sennacherib king of Assyria departed and returned home and lived at Nineveh.
Isa 37:38 And as he was worshiping in the house of Nisroch his god, Adrammelech and Sharezer, his sons,
struck him down with the sword. And after they escaped into the land of Ararat, Esarhaddon his son reigned in
his place.
Isa 38:1 In those days Hezekiah became sick and was at the point of death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of
Amoz came to him, and said to him, "Thus says the LORD: Set your house in order, for you shall die, you shall
not recover."
Isa 38:2 Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to the LORD,
Isa 38:3 and said, "Please, O LORD, remember how I have walked before you in faithfulness and with a whole
heart, and have done what is good in your sight." And Hezekiah wept bitterly.
Isa 38:4 Then the word of the LORD came to Isaiah:
Isa 38:5 "Go and say to Hezekiah, Thus says the LORD, the God of David your father: I have heard your prayer;
I have seen your tears. Behold, I will add fifteen years to your life.
Isa 38:6 I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria, and will defend this city.
Isa 38:7 "This shall be the sign to you from the LORD, that the LORD will do this thing that he has promised:
Isa 38:8 Behold, I will make the shadow cast by the declining sun on the dial of Ahaz turn back ten steps." So
the sun turned back on the dial the ten steps by which it had declined.
Isa 38:9 A writing of Hezekiah king of Judah, after he had been sick and had recovered from his sickness:
Isa 38:10 I said, In the middle of my days I must depart; I am consigned to the gates of Sheol for the rest of my
years.
Isa 38:11 I said, I shall not see the LORD, the LORD in the land of the living; I shall look on man no more
among the inhabitants of the world.Isa 38:12 My dwelling is plucked up and removed from me like a shepherd's tent; like a weaver I have rolled up
my life; he cuts me off from the loom; from day to night you bring me to an end;
Isa 38:13 I calmed myself until morning; like a lion he breaks all my bones; from day to night you bring me to an
end.
Isa 38:14 Like a swallow or a crane I chirp; I moan like a dove. My eyes are weary with looking upward. O Lord,
I am oppressed; be my pledge of safety!
Isa 38:15 What shall I say? For he has spoken to me, and he himself has done it. I walk slowly all my years
because of the bitterness of my soul.
Isa 38:16 O Lord, by these things men live, and in all these is the life of my spirit. Oh restore me to health and
make me live!
Isa 38:17 Behold, it was for my welfare that I had great bitterness; but in love you have delivered my life from
the pit of destruction, for you have cast all my sins behind your back.
Isa 38:18 For Sheol does not thank you; death does not praise you; those who go down to the pit do not hope
for your faithfulness.
Isa 38:19 The living, the living, he thanks you, as I do this day; the father makes known to the children your
faithfulness.
Isa 38:20 The LORD will save me, and we will play my music on stringed instruments all the days of our lives, at
the house of the LORD.
Isa 38:21 Now Isaiah had said, "Let them take a cake of figs and apply it to the boil, that he may recover."
Isa 38:22 Hezekiah also had said, "What is the sign that I shall go up to the house of the LORD?"
Isa 39:1 At that time Merodach-baladan the son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent envoys with letters and a
present to Hezekiah, for he heard that he had been sick and had recovered.
Isa 39:2 And Hezekiah welcomed them gladly. And he showed them his treasure house, the silver, the gold, the
spices, the precious oil, his whole armory, all that was found in his storehouses. There was nothing in his house
or in all his realm that Hezekiah did not show them.
Isa 39:3 Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah, and said to him, "What did these men say? And from
where did they come to you?" Hezekiah said, "They have come to me from a far country, from Babylon."
Isa 39:4 He said, "What have they seen in your house?" Hezekiah answered, "They have seen all that is in my
house. There is nothing in my storehouses that I did not show them."
Isa 39:5 Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, "Hear the word of the LORD of hosts:
Isa 39:6 Behold, the days are coming, when all that is in your house, and that which your fathers have stored up
till this day, shall be carried to Babylon. Nothing shall be left, says the LORD.
Isa 39:7 And some of your own sons, who will come from you, whom you will father, shall be taken away, and
they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon."
Isa 39:8 Then said Hezekiah to Isaiah, "The word of the LORD that you have spoken is good." For he thought,
"There will be peace and security in my days."
Isa 40:1 Comfort, comfort my people, says your God.
Isa 40:2 Speak tenderly to Jerusalem, and cry to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned, that
she has received from the LORD's hand double for all her sins.
Isa 40:3 A voice cries: "In the wilderness prepare the way of the LORD; make straight in the desert a highway
for our God.
Isa 40:4 Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill be made low; the uneven ground shall
become level, and the rough places a plain.
Isa 40:5 And the glory of the LORD shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the
LORD has spoken."
Isa 40:6 A voice says, "Cry!" And I said, "What shall I cry?" All flesh is grass, and all its beauty is like the flower
of the field.
Isa 40:7 The grass withers, the flower fades when the breath of the LORD blows on it; surely the people are
grass.
Isa 40:8 The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever.
Isa 40:9 Get you up to a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good news; lift up your voice with strength, O
Jerusalem, herald of good news; lift it up, fear not; say to the cities of Judah, "Behold your God!"
Isa 40:10 Behold, the Lord GOD comes with might, and his arm rules for him; behold, his reward is with him,
and his recompense before him.
Isa 40:11 He will tend his flock like a shepherd; he will gather the lambs in his arms; he will carry them in his
bosom, and gently lead those that are with young.
Isa 40:12 Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand and marked off the heavens with a span,
enclosed the dust of the earth in a measure and weighed the mountains in scales and the hills in a balance?
Isa 40:13 Who has measured the Spirit of the LORD, or what man shows him his counsel?Isa 40:14 Whom did he consult, and who made him understand? Who taught him the path of justice, and taught
him knowledge, and showed him the way of understanding?
Isa 40:15 Behold, the nations are like a drop from a bucket, and are accounted as the dust on the scales;
behold, he takes up the coastlands like fine dust.
Isa 40:16 Lebanon would not suffice for fuel, nor are its beasts enough for a burnt offering.
Isa 40:17 All the nations are as nothing before him, they are accounted by him as less than nothing and
emptiness.
Isa 40:18 To whom then will you liken God, or what likeness compare with him?
Isa 40:19 An idol! A craftsman casts it, and a goldsmith overlays it with gold and casts for it silver chains.
Isa 40:20 He who is too impoverished for an offering chooses wood that will not rot; he seeks out a skillful
craftsman to set up an idol that will not move.
Isa 40:21 Do you not know? Do you not hear? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not
understood from the foundations of the earth?
Isa 40:22 It is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers; who stretches
out the heavens like a curtain, and spreads them like a tent to dwell in;
Isa 40:23 who brings princes to nothing, and makes the rulers of the earth as emptiness.
Isa 40:24 Scarcely are they planted, scarcely sown, scarcely has their stem taken root in the earth, when he
blows on them, and they wither, and the tempest carries them off like stubble.
Isa 40:25 To whom then will you compare me, that I should be like him? says the Holy One.
Isa 40:26 Lift up your eyes on high and see: who created these? He who brings out their host by number, calling
them all by name, by the greatness of his might, and because he is strong in power not one is missing.
Isa 40:27 Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, "My way is hidden from the LORD, and my right is
disregarded by my God"?
Isa 40:28 Have you not known? Have you not heard? The LORD is the everlasting God, the Creator of the ends
of the earth. He does not faint or grow weary; his understanding is unsearchable.
Isa 40:29 He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might he increases strength.
Isa 40:30 Even youths shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted;
Isa 40:31 but they who wait for the LORD shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings like eagles;
they shall run and not be weary; they shall walk and not faint.
Isa 41:1 Listen to me in silence, O coastlands; let the peoples renew their strength; let them approach, then let
them speak; let us together draw near for judgment.
Isa 41:2 Who stirred up one from the east whom victory meets at every step? He gives up nations before him,
so that he tramples kings underfoot; he makes them like dust with his sword, like driven stubble with his bow.
Isa 41:3 He pursues them and passes on safely, by paths his feet have not trod.
Isa 41:4 Who has performed and done this, calling the generations from the beginning? I, the LORD, the first,
and with the last; I am he.
Isa 41:5 The coastlands have seen and are afraid; the ends of the earth tremble; they have drawn near and
come.
Isa 41:6 Everyone helps his neighbor and says to his brother, "Be strong!"
Isa 41:7 The craftsman strengthens the goldsmith, and he who smooths with the hammer him who strikes the
anvil, saying of the soldering, "It is good"; and they strengthen it with nails so that it cannot be moved.
Isa 41:8 But you, Israel, my servant, Jacob, whom I have chosen, the offspring of Abraham, my friend;
Isa 41:9 you whom I took from the ends of the earth, and called from its farthest corners, saying to you, "You are
my servant, I have chosen you and not cast you off";
Isa 41:10 fear not, for I am with you; be not dismayed, for I am your God; I will strengthen you, I will help you, I
will uphold you with my righteous right hand.
Isa 41:11 Behold, all who are incensed against you shall be put to shame and confounded; those who strive
against you shall be as nothing and shall perish.
Isa 41:12 You shall seek those who contend with you, but you shall not find them; those who war against you
shall be as nothing at all.
Isa 41:13 For I, the LORD your God, hold your right hand; it is I who say to you, "Fear not, I am the one who
helps you."
Isa 41:14 Fear not, you worm Jacob, you men of Israel! I am the one who helps you, declares the LORD; your
Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel.
Isa 41:15 Behold, I make of you a threshing sledge, new, sharp, and having teeth; you shall thresh the
mountains and crush them, and you shall make the hills like chaff;
Isa 41:16 you shall winnow them, and the wind shall carry them away, and the tempest shall scatter them. And
you shall rejoice in the LORD; in the Holy One of Israel you shall glory.
Isa 41:17 When the poor and needy seek water, and there is none, and their tongue is parched with thirst, I theLORD will answer them; I the God of Israel will not forsake them.
Isa 41:18 I will open rivers on the bare heights, and fountains in the midst of the valleys. I will make the
wilderness a pool of water, and the dry land springs of water.
Isa 41:19 I will put in the wilderness the cedar, the acacia, the myrtle, and the olive. I will set in the desert the
cypress, the plane and the pine together,
Isa 41:20 that men may see and know, may consider and understand together, that the hand of the LORD has
done this, the Holy One of Israel has created it.
Isa 41:21 Set forth your case, says the LORD; bring your proofs, says the King of Jacob.
Isa 41:22 Let them bring them, and tell us what is to happen. Tell us the former things, what they are, that we
may consider them, that we may know their outcome; or declare to us the things to come.
Isa 41:23 Tell us what is to come hereafter, that we may know that you are gods; do good, or do harm, that we
may be dismayed and terrified.
Isa 41:24 Behold, you are nothing, and your work is less than nothing; an abomination is he who chooses you.
Isa 41:25 I stirred up one from the north, and he has come, from the rising of the sun, and he shall call upon my
name; he shall trample on rulers as on mortar, as the potter treads clay.
Isa 41:26 Who declared it from the beginning, that we might know, and beforehand, that we might say, "He is
right"? There was none who declared it, none who proclaimed, none who heard your words.
Isa 41:27 I was the first to say to Zion, "Behold, here they are!" and I give to Jerusalem a herald of good news.
Isa 41:28 But when I look there is no one; among these there is no counselor who, when I ask, gives an answer.
Isa 41:29 Behold, they are all a delusion; their works are nothing; their metal images are empty wind.
Isa 42:1 Behold my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights; I have put my Spirit upon
him; he will bring forth justice to the nations.
Isa 42:2 He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice, or make it heard in the street;
Isa 42:3 a bruised reed he will not break, and a faintly burning wick he will not quench; he will faithfully bring
forth justice.
Isa 42:4 He will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth; and the coastlands
wait for his law.
Isa 42:5 Thus says God, the LORD, who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth
and what comes from it, who gives breath to the people on it and spirit to those who walk in it:
Isa 42:6 "I am the LORD; I have called you in righteousness; I will take you by the hand and keep you; I will give
you as a covenant for the people, a light for the nations,
Isa 42:7 to open the eyes that are blind, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, from the prison those who
sit in darkness.
Isa 42:8 I am the LORD; that is my name; my glory I give to no other, nor my praise to carved idols.
Isa 42:9 Behold, the former things have come to pass, and new things I now declare; before they spring forth I
tell you of them."
Isa 42:10 Sing to the LORD a new song, his praise from the end of the earth, you who go down to the sea, and
all that fills it, the coastlands and their inhabitants.
Isa 42:11 Let the desert and its cities lift up their voice, the villages that Kedar inhabits; let the habitants of Sela
sing for joy, let them shout from the top of the mountains.
Isa 42:12 Let them give glory to the LORD, and declare his praise in the coastlands.
Isa 42:13 The LORD goes out like a mighty man, like a man of war he stirs up his zeal; he cries out, he shouts
aloud, he shows himself mighty against his foes.
Isa 42:14 For a long time I have held my peace; I have kept still and restrained myself; now I will cry out like a
woman in labor; I will gasp and pant.
Isa 42:15 I will lay waste mountains and hills, and dry up all their vegetation; I will turn the rivers into islands,
and dry up the pools.
Isa 42:16 And I will lead the blind in a way that they do not know, in paths that they have not known I will guide
them. I will turn the darkness before them into light, the rough places into level ground. These are the things I do,
and I do not forsake them.
Isa 42:17 They are turned back and utterly put to shame, who trust in carved idols, who say to metal images,
"You are our gods."
Isa 42:18 Hear, you deaf, and look, you blind, that you may see!
Isa 42:19 Who is blind but my servant, or deaf as my messenger whom I send? Who is blind as my dedicated
one, or blind as the servant of the LORD?
Isa 42:20 He sees many things, but does not observe them; his ears are open, but he does not hear.
Isa 42:21 The LORD was pleased, for his righteousness' sake, to magnify his law and make it glorious.
Isa 42:22 But this is a people plundered and looted; they are all of them trapped in holes and hidden in prisons;
they have become plunder with none to rescue, spoil with none to say, "Restore!"Isa 42:23 Who among you will give ear to this, will attend and listen for the time to come?
Isa 42:24 Who gave up Jacob to the looter, and Israel to the plunderers? Was it not the LORD, against whom
we have sinned, in whose ways they would not walk, and whose law they would not obey?
Isa 42:25 So he poured on him the heat of his anger and the might of battle; it set him on fire all around, but he
did not understand; it burned him up, but he did not take it to heart.
Isa 43:1 But now thus says the LORD,he who created you, O Jacob, he who formed you, O Israel: "Fear not, for
I have redeemed you; I have called you by name, you are mine.
Isa 43:2 When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; and through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm
you; when you walk through fire you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you.
Isa 43:3 For I am the LORD your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. I give Egypt as your ransom, Cush
and Seba in exchange for you.
Isa 43:4 Because you are precious in my eyes, and honored, and I love you, I give men in return for you,
peoples in exchange for your life.
Isa 43:5 Fear not, for I am with you; I will bring your offspring from the east, and from the west I will gather you.
Isa 43:6 I will say to the north, Give up, and to the south, Do not withhold; bring my sons from afar and my
daughters from the end of the earth,
Isa 43:7 everyone who is called by my name, whom I created for my glory, whom I formed and made."
Isa 43:8 Bring out the people who are blind, yet have eyes, who are deaf, yet have ears!
Isa 43:9 All the nations gather together, and the peoples assemble. Who among them can declare this, and
show us the former things? Let them bring their witnesses to prove them right, and let them hear and say, It is
true.
Isa 43:10 "You are my witnesses," declares the LORD, "and my servant whom I have chosen, that you may
know and believe me and understand that I am he. Before me no god was formed, nor shall there be any after
me.
Isa 43:11 I, I am the LORD, and besides me there is no savior.
Isa 43:12 I declared and saved and proclaimed, when there was no strange god among you; and you are my
witnesses," declares the LORD, "and I am God.
Isa 43:13 Also henceforth I am he; there is none who can deliver from my hand; I work, and who can turn it
back?"
Isa 43:14 Thus says the LORD, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: "For your sake I send to Babylon and
bring them all down as fugitives, even the Chaldeans, in the ships in which they rejoice.
Isa 43:15 I am the LORD, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King."
Isa 43:16 Thus says the LORD, who makes a way in the sea, a path in the mighty waters,
Isa 43:17 who brings forth chariot and horse, army and warrior; they lie down, they cannot rise, they are
extinguished, quenched like a wick:
Isa 43:18 "Remember not the former things, nor consider the things of old.
Isa 43:19 Behold, I am doing a new thing; now it springs forth, do you not perceive it? I will make a way in the
wilderness and rivers in the desert.
Isa 43:20 The wild beasts will honor me, the jackals and the ostriches, for I give water in the wilderness, rivers in
the desert, to give drink to my chosen people,
Isa 43:21 the people whom I formed for myself that they might declare my praise.
Isa 43:22 "Yet you did not call upon me, O Jacob; but you have been weary of me, O Israel!
Isa 43:23 You have not brought me your sheep for burnt offerings, or honored me with your sacrifices. I have
not burdened you with offerings, or wearied you with frankincense.
Isa 43:24 You have not bought me sweet cane with money, or satisfied me with the fat of your sacrifices. But
you have burdened me with your sins; you have wearied me with your iniquities.
Isa 43:25 "I, I am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins.
Isa 43:26 Put me in remembrance; let us argue together; set forth your case, that you may be proved right.
Isa 43:27 Your first father sinned, and your mediators transgressed against me.
Isa 43:28 Therefore I will profane the princes of the sanctuary, and deliver Jacob to utter destruction and Israel
to reviling.
Isa 44:1 "But now hear, O Jacob my servant, Israel whom I have chosen!
Isa 44:2 Thus says the LORD who made you, who formed you from the womb and will help you: Fear not, O
Jacob my servant, Jeshurun whom I have chosen.
Isa 44:3 For I will pour water on the thirsty land, and streams on the dry ground; I will pour my Spirit upon your
offspring, and my blessing on your descendants.
Isa 44:4 They shall spring up among the grass like willows by flowing streams.
Isa 44:5 This one will say, 'I am the LORD's,' another will call on the name of Jacob, and another will write on
his hand, 'The LORD's,' and name himself by the name of Israel."Isa 44:6 Thus says the LORD, the King of Israel and his Redeemer, the LORD of hosts: "I am the first and I am
the last; besides me there is no god.
Isa 44:7 Who is like me? Let him proclaim it. Let him declare and set it before me, since I appointed an ancient
people. Let them declare what is to come, and what will happen.
Isa 44:8 Fear not, nor be afraid; have I not told you from of old and declared it? And you are my witnesses! Is
there a God besides me? There is no Rock; I know not any."
Isa 44:9 All who fashion idols are nothing, and the things they delight in do not profit. Their witnesses neither
see nor know, that they may be put to shame.
Isa 44:10 Who fashions a god or casts an idol that is profitable for nothing?
Isa 44:11 Behold, all his companions shall be put to shame, and the craftsmen are only human. Let them all
assemble, let them stand forth. They shall be terrified; they shall be put to shame together.
Isa 44:12 The ironsmith takes a cutting tool and works it over the coals. He fashions it with hammers and works
it with his strong arm. He becomes hungry, and his strength fails; he drinks no water and is faint.
Isa 44:13 The carpenter stretches a line; he marks it out with a pencil. He shapes it with planes and marks it
with a compass. He shapes it into the figure of a man, with the beauty of a man, to dwell in a house.
Isa 44:14 He cuts down cedars, or he chooses a cypress tree or an oak and lets it grow strong among the trees
of the forest. He plants a cedar and the rain nourishes it.
Isa 44:15 Then it becomes fuel for a man. He takes a part of it and warms himself; he kindles a fire and bakes
bread. Also he makes a god and worships it; he makes it an idol and falls down before it.
Isa 44:16 Half of it he burns in the fire. Over the half he eats meat; he roasts it and is satisfied. Also he warms
himself and says, "Aha, I am warm, I have seen the fire!"
Isa 44:17 And the rest of it he makes into a god, his idol, and falls down to it and worships it. He prays to it and
says, "Deliver me, for you are my god!"
Isa 44:18 They know not, nor do they discern, for he has shut their eyes, so that they cannot see, and their
hearts, so that they cannot understand.
Isa 44:19 No one considers, nor is there knowledge or discernment to say, "Half of it I burned in the fire; I also
baked bread on its coals; I roasted meat and have eaten. And shall I make the rest of it an abomination? Shall I
fall down before a block of wood?"
Isa 44:20 He feeds on ashes; a deluded heart has led him astray, and he cannot deliver himself or say, "Is there
not a lie in my right hand?"
Isa 44:21 Remember these things, O Jacob, and Israel, for you are my servant; I formed you; you are my
servant; O Israel, you will not be forgotten by me.
Isa 44:22 I have blotted out your transgressions like a cloud and your sins like mist; return to me, for I have
redeemed you.
Isa 44:23 Sing, O heavens, for the LORD has done it; shout, O depths of the earth; break forth into singing, O
mountains, O forest, and every tree in it! For the LORD has redeemed Jacob, and will be glorified in Israel.
Isa 44:24 Thus says the LORD, your Redeemer, who formed you from the womb: "I am the LORD, who made
all things, who alone stretched out the heavens, who spread out the earth by myself,
Isa 44:25 who frustrates the signs of liars and makes fools of diviners, who turns wise men back and makes
their knowledge foolish,
Isa 44:26 who confirms the word of his servant and fulfills the counsel of his messengers, who says of
Jerusalem, 'She shall be inhabited,' and of the cities of Judah, 'They shall be built, and I will raise up their ruins';
Isa 44:27 who says to the deep, 'Be dry; I will dry up your rivers';
Isa 44:28 who says of Cyrus, 'He is my shepherd, and he shall fulfill all my purpose'; saying of Jerusalem, 'She
shall be built,' and of the temple, 'Your foundation shall be laid.'"
Isa 45:1 Thus says the LORD to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have grasped, to subdue nations
before him and to loose the belts of kings, to open doors before him that gates may not be closed:
Isa 45:2 "I will go before you and level the exalted places, I will break in pieces the doors of bronze and cut
through the bars of iron,
Isa 45:3 I will give you the treasures of darkness and the hoards in secret places, that you may know that it is I,
the LORD, the God of Israel, who call you by your name.
Isa 45:4 For the sake of my servant Jacob, and Israel my chosen, I call you by your name, I name you, though
you do not know me.
Isa 45:5 I am the LORD, and there is no other, besides me there is no God; I equip you, though you do not
know me,
Isa 45:6 that people may know, from the rising of the sun and from the west, that there is none besides me; I am
the LORD, and there is no other.
Isa 45:7 I form light and create darkness, I make well-being and create calamity, I am the LORD, who does all
these things.Isa 45:8 "Shower, O heavens, from above, and let the clouds rain down righteousness; let the earth open, that
salvation and righteousness may bear fruit; let the earth cause them both to sprout; I the LORD have created it.
Isa 45:9 "Woe to him who strives with him who formed him, a pot among earthen pots! Does the clay say to him
who forms it, 'What are you making?' or 'Your work has no handles'?
Isa 45:10 Woe to him who says to a father, 'What are you begetting?' or to a woman, 'With what are you in
labor?'"
Isa 45:11 Thus says the LORD, the Holy One of Israel, and the one who formed him: "Ask me of things to come;
will you command me concerning my children and the work of my hands?
Isa 45:12 I made the earth and created man on it; it was my hands that stretched out the heavens, and I
commanded all their host.
Isa 45:13 I have stirred him up in righteousness, and I will make all his ways level; he shall build my city and set
my exiles free, not for price or reward," says the LORD of hosts.
Isa 45:14 Thus says the LORD: "The wealth of Egypt and the merchandise of Cush, and the Sabeans, men of
stature, shall come over to you and be yours; they shall follow you; they shall come over in chains and bow down
to you. They will plead with you, saying: 'Surely God is in you, and there is no other, no god besides him.'"
Isa 45:15 Truly, you are a God who hides yourself, O God of Israel, the Savior.
Isa 45:16 All of them are put to shame and confounded; the makers of idols go in confusion together.
Isa 45:17 But Israel is saved by the LORD with everlasting salvation; you shall not be put to shame or
confounded to all eternity.
Isa 45:18 For thus says the LORD, who created the heavens (he is God!), who formed the earth and made it (he
established it; he did not create it empty, he formed it to be inhabited!): "I am the LORD, and there is no other.
Isa 45:19 I did not speak in secret, in a land of darkness; I did not say to the offspring of Jacob, 'Seek me in
vain.' I the LORD speak the truth; I declare what is right.
Isa 45:20 "Assemble yourselves and come; draw near together, you survivors of the nations! They have no
knowledge who carry about their wooden idols, and keep on praying to a god that cannot save.
Isa 45:21 Declare and present your case; let them take counsel together! Who told this long ago? Who declared
it of old? Was it not I, the LORD? And there is no other god besides me, a righteous God and a Savior; there is
none besides me.
Isa 45:22 "Turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth! For I am God, and there is no other.
Isa 45:23 By myself I have sworn; from my mouth has gone out in righteousness a word that shall not return: 'To
me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear allegiance.'
Isa 45:24 "Only in the LORD, it shall be said of me, are righteousness and strength; to him shall come and be
ashamed all who were incensed against him.
Isa 45:25 In the LORD all the offspring of Israel shall be justified and shall glory."
Isa 46:1 Bel bows down; Nebo stoops; their idols are on beasts and livestock; these things you carry are borne
as burdens on weary beasts.
Isa 46:2 They stoop; they bow down together; they cannot save the burden, but themselves go into captivity.
Isa 46:3 "Listen to me, O house of Jacob, all the remnant of the house of Israel, who have been borne by me
from before your birth, carried from the womb;
Isa 46:4 even to your old age I am he, and to gray hairs I will carry you. I have made, and I will bear; I will carry
and will save.
Isa 46:5 "To whom will you liken me and make me equal, and compare me, that we may be alike?
Isa 46:6 Those who lavish gold from the purse, and weigh out silver in the scales, hire a goldsmith, and he
makes it into a god; then they fall down and worship!
Isa 46:7 They lift it to their shoulders, they carry it, they set it in its place, and it stands there; it cannot move
from its place. If one cries to it, it does not answer or save him from his trouble.
Isa 46:8 "Remember this and stand firm, recall it to mind, you transgressors,
Isa 46:9 remember the former things of old; for I am God, and there is no other; I am God, and there is none like
me,
Isa 46:10 declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times things not yet done, saying, 'My counsel
shall stand, and I will accomplish all my purpose,'
Isa 46:11 calling a bird of prey from the east, the man of my counsel from a far country. I have spoken, and I will
bring it to pass; I have purposed, and I will do it.
Isa 46:12 "Listen to me, you stubborn of heart, you who are far from righteousness:
Isa 46:13 I bring near my righteousness; it is not far off, and my salvation will not delay; I will put salvation in
Zion, for Israel my glory."
Isa 47:1 Come down and sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon; sit on the ground without a throne, O
daughter of the Chaldeans! For you shall no more be called tender and delicate.
Isa 47:2 Take the millstones and grind flour, put off your veil, strip off your robe, uncover your legs, pass throughthe rivers.
Isa 47:3 Your nakedness shall be uncovered, and your disgrace shall be seen. I will take vengeance, and I will
spare no one.
Isa 47:4 Our Redeemer- the LORD of hosts is his name- is the Holy One of Israel.
Isa 47:5 Sit in silence, and go into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans; for you shall no more be called the
mistress of kingdoms.
Isa 47:6 I was angry with my people; I profaned my heritage; I gave them into your hand; you showed them no
mercy; on the aged you made your yoke exceedingly heavy.
Isa 47:7 You said, "I shall be mistress forever," so that you did not lay these things to heart or remember their
end.
Isa 47:8 Now therefore hear this, you lover of pleasures, who sit securely, who say in your heart, "I am, and
there is no one besides me; I shall not sit as a widow or know the loss of children":
Isa 47:9 These two things shall come to you in a moment, in one day; the loss of children and widowhood shall
come upon you in full measure, in spite of your many sorceries and the great power of your enchantments.
Isa 47:10 You felt secure in your wickedness, you said, "No one sees me"; your wisdom and your knowledge
led you astray, and you said in your heart, "I am, and there is no one besides me."
Isa 47:11 But evil shall come upon you, which you will not know how to charm away; disaster shall fall upon you,
for which you will not be able to atone; and ruin shall come upon you suddenly, of which you know nothing.
Isa 47:12 Stand fast in your enchantments and your many sorceries, with which you have labored from your
youth; perhaps you may be able to succeed; perhaps you may inspire terror.
Isa 47:13 You are wearied with your many counsels; let them stand forth and save you, those who divide the
heavens, who gaze at the stars, who at the new moons make known what shall come upon you.
Isa 47:14 Behold, they are like stubble; the fire consumes them; they cannot deliver themselves from the power
of the flame. No coal for warming oneself is this, no fire to sit before!
Isa 47:15 Such to you are those with whom you have labored, who have done business with you from your
youth; they wander about each in his own direction; there is no one to save you.
Isa 48:1 Hear this, O house of Jacob,who are called by the name of Israel, and who came from the waters of
Judah, who swear by the name of the LORD and confess the God of Israel, but not in truth or right.
Isa 48:2 For they call themselves after the holy city, and stay themselves on the God of Israel; the LORD of
hosts is his name.
Isa 48:3 "The former things I declared of old; they went out from my mouth and I announced them; then
suddenly I did them and they came to pass.
Isa 48:4 Because I know that you are obstinate, and your neck is an iron sinew and your forehead brass,
Isa 48:5 I declared them to you from of old, before they came to pass I announced them to you, lest you should
say, 'My idol did them, my carved image and my metal image commanded them.'
Isa 48:6 "You have heard; now see all this; and will you not declare it? From this time forth I announce to you
new things, hidden things that you have not known.
Isa 48:7 They are created now, not long ago; before today you have never heard of them, lest you should say,
'Behold, I knew them.'
Isa 48:8 You have never heard, you have never known, from of old your ear has not been opened. For I knew
that you would surely deal treacherously, and that from before birth you were called a rebel.
Isa 48:9 "For my name's sake I defer my anger, for the sake of my praise I restrain it for you, that I may not cut
you off.
Isa 48:10 Behold, I have refined you, but not as silver; I have tried you in the furnace of affliction.
Isa 48:11 For my own sake, for my own sake, I do it, for how should my name be profaned? My glory I will not
give to another.
Isa 48:12 "Listen to me, O Jacob, and Israel, whom I called! I am he; I am the first, and I am the last.
Isa 48:13 My hand laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand spread out the heavens; when I call to
them, they stand forth together.
Isa 48:14 "Assemble, all of you, and listen! who among them has declared these things? The LORD loves him;
he shall perform his purpose on Babylon, and his arm shall be against the Chaldeans.
Isa 48:15 I, even I, have spoken and called him; I have brought him, and he will prosper in his way.
Isa 48:16 Draw near to me, hear this: from the beginning I have not spoken in secret, from the time it came to
be I have been there." And now the Lord GOD has sent me, and his Spirit.
Isa 48:17 Thus says the LORD, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: "I am the LORD your God, who teaches
you to profit, who leads you in the way you should go.
Isa 48:18 Oh that you had paid attention to my commandments! Then your peace would have been like a river,
and your righteousness like the waves of the sea;
Isa 48:19 your offspring would have been like the sand, and your descendants like its grains; their name wouldnever be cut off or destroyed from before me."
Isa 48:20 Go out from Babylon, flee from Chaldea, declare this with a shout of joy, proclaim it, send it out to the
end of the earth; say, "The LORD has redeemed his servant Jacob!"
Isa 48:21 They did not thirst when he led them through the deserts; he made water flow for them from the rock;
he split the rock and the water gushed out.
Isa 48:22 "There is no peace," says the LORD, "for the wicked."
Isa 49:1 Listen to me, O coastlands,and give attention, you peoples from afar. The LORD called me from the
womb, from the body of my mother he named my name.
Isa 49:2 He made my mouth like a sharp sword; in the shadow of his hand he hid me; he made me a polished
arrow; in his quiver he hid me away.
Isa 49:3 And he said to me, "You are my servant, Israel, in whom I will be glorified."
Isa 49:4 But I said, "I have labored in vain; I have spent my strength for nothing and vanity; yet surely my right is
with the LORD, and my recompense with my God."
Isa 49:5 And now the LORD says, he who formed me from the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob back to
him; and that Israel might be gathered to him- for I am honored in the eyes of the LORD, and my God has
become my strengthIsa 49:6 he says: "It is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to bring
back the preserved of Israel; I will make you as a light for the nations, that my salvation may reach to the end of
the earth."
Isa 49:7 Thus says the LORD, the Redeemer of Israel and his Holy One, to one deeply despised, abhorred by
the nation, the servant of rulers: "Kings shall see and arise; princes, and they shall prostrate themselves;
because of the LORD, who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel, who has chosen you."
Isa 49:8 Thus says the LORD: "In a time of favor I have answered you; in a day of salvation I have helped you; I
will keep you and give you as a covenant to the people, to establish the land, to apportion the desolate
heritages,
Isa 49:9 saying to the prisoners, 'Come out,' to those who are in darkness, 'Appear.' They shall feed along the
ways; on all bare heights shall be their pasture;
Isa 49:10 they shall not hunger or thirst, neither scorching wind nor sun shall strike them, for he who has pity on
them will lead them, and by springs of water will guide them.
Isa 49:11 And I will make all my mountains a road, and my highways shall be raised up.
Isa 49:12 Behold, these shall come from afar, and behold, these from the north and from the west, and these
from the land of Syene."
Isa 49:13 Sing for joy, O heavens, and exult, O earth; break forth, O mountains, into singing! for the LORD has
comforted his people and will have compassion on his afflicted.
Isa 49:14 But Zion said, "The LORD has forsaken me; my Lord has forgotten me."
Isa 49:15 "Can a woman forget her nursing child, that she should have no compassion on the son of her womb?
Even these may forget, yet I will not forget you.
Isa 49:16 Behold, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands; your walls are continually before me.
Isa 49:17 Your builders make haste; your destroyers and those who laid you waste go out from you.
Isa 49:18 Lift up your eyes around and see; they all gather, they come to you. As I live, declares the LORD, you
shall put them all on as an ornament; you shall bind them on as a bride does.
Isa 49:19 "Surely your waste and your desolate places and your devastated land- surely now you will be too
narrow for your inhabitants, and those who swallowed you up will be far away.
Isa 49:20 The children of your bereavement will yet say in your ears: 'The place is too narrow for me; make
room for me to dwell in.'
Isa 49:21 Then you will say in your heart: 'Who has borne me these? I was bereaved and barren, exiled and put
away, but who has brought up these? Behold, I was left alone; from where have these come?'"
Isa 49:22 Thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I will lift up my hand to the nations, and raise my signal to the
peoples; and they shall bring your sons in their bosom, and your daughters shall be carried on their shoulders.
Isa 49:23 Kings shall be your foster fathers, and their queens your nursing mothers. With their faces to the
ground they shall bow down to you, and lick the dust of your feet. Then you will know that I am the LORD; those
who wait for me shall not be put to shame."
Isa 49:24 Can the prey be taken from the mighty, or the captives of a tyrant be rescued?
Isa 49:25 For thus says the LORD: "Even the captives of the mighty shall be taken, and the prey of the tyrant be
rescued, for I will contend with those who contend with you, and I will save your children.
Isa 49:26 I will make your oppressors eat their own flesh, and they shall be drunk with their own blood as with
wine. Then all flesh shall know that I am the LORD your Savior, and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob."
Isa 50:1 Thus says the LORD:"Where is your mother's certificate of divorce, with which I sent her away? Or
which of my creditors is it to whom I have sold you? Behold, for your iniquities you were sold, and for yourtransgressions your mother was sent away.
Isa 50:2 Why, when I came, was there no man; why, when I called, was there no one to answer? Is my hand
shortened, that it cannot redeem? Or have I no power to deliver? Behold, by my rebuke I dry up the sea, I make
the rivers a desert; their fish stink for lack of water and die of thirst.
Isa 50:3 I clothe the heavens with blackness and make sackcloth their covering."
Isa 50:4 The Lord GOD has given me the tongue of those who are taught, that I may know how to sustain with a
word him who is weary. Morning by morning he awakens; he awakens my ear to hear as those who are taught.
Isa 50:5 The Lord GOD has opened my ear, and I was not rebellious; I turned not backward.
Isa 50:6 I gave my back to those who strike, and my cheeks to those who pull out the beard; I hid not my face
from disgrace and spitting.
Isa 50:7 But the Lord GOD helps me; therefore I have not been disgraced; therefore I have set my face like a
flint, and I know that I shall not be put to shame.
Isa 50:8 He who vindicates me is near. Who will contend with me? Let us stand up together. Who is my
adversary? Let him come near to me.
Isa 50:9 Behold, the Lord GOD helps me; who will declare me guilty? Behold, all of them will wear out like a
garment; the moth will eat them up.
Isa 50:10 Who among you fears the LORD and obeys the voice of his servant? Let him who walks in darkness
and has no light trust in the name of the LORD and rely on his God.
Isa 50:11 Behold, all you who kindle a fire, who equip yourselves with burning torches! Walk by the light of your
fire, and by the torches that you have kindled! This you have from my hand: you shall lie down in torment.
Isa 51:1 "Listen to me, you who pursue righteousness, you who seek the LORD: look to the rock from which you
were hewn, and to the quarry from which you were dug.
Isa 51:2 Look to Abraham your father and to Sarah who bore you; for he was but one when I called him, that I
might bless him and multiply him.
Isa 51:3 For the LORD comforts Zion; he comforts all her waste places and makes her wilderness like Eden, her
desert like the garden of the LORD; joy and gladness will be found in her, thanksgiving and the voice of song.
Isa 51:4 "Give attention to me, my people, and give ear to me, my nation; for a law will go out from me, and I will
set my justice for a light to the peoples.
Isa 51:5 My righteousness draws near, my salvation has gone out, and my arms will judge the peoples; the
coastlands hope for me, and for my arm they wait.
Isa 51:6 Lift up your eyes to the heavens, and look at the earth beneath; for the heavens vanish like smoke, the
earth will wear out like a garment, and they who dwell in it will die in like manner; but my salvation will be forever,
and my righteousness will never be dismayed.
Isa 51:7 "Listen to me, you who know righteousness, the people in whose heart is my law; fear not the reproach
of man, nor be dismayed at their revilings.
Isa 51:8 For the moth will eat them up like a garment, and the worm will eat them like wool; but my
righteousness will be forever, and my salvation to all generations."
Isa 51:9 Awake, awake, put on strength, O arm of the LORD; awake, as in days of old, the generations of long
ago. Was it not you who cut Rahab in pieces, that pierced the dragon?
Isa 51:10 Was it not you who dried up the sea, the waters of the great deep, who made the depths of the sea a
way for the redeemed to pass over?
Isa 51:11 And the ransomed of the LORD shall return and come to Zion with singing; everlasting joy shall be
upon their heads; they shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.
Isa 51:12 "I, I am he who comforts you; who are you that you are afraid of man who dies, of the son of man who
is made like grass,
Isa 51:13 and have forgotten the LORD, your Maker, who stretched out the heavens and laid the foundations of
the earth, and you fear continually all the day because of the wrath of the oppressor, when he sets himself to
destroy? And where is the wrath of the oppressor?
Isa 51:14 He who is bowed down shall speedily be released; he shall not die and go down to the pit, neither
shall his bread be lacking.
Isa 51:15 I am the LORD your God, who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar- the LORD of hosts is his name.
Isa 51:16 And I have put my words in your mouth and covered you in the shadow of my hand, establishing the
heavens and laying the foundations of the earth, and saying to Zion, 'You are my people.'"
Isa 51:17 Wake yourself, wake yourself, stand up, O Jerusalem, you who have drunk from the hand of the
LORD the cup of his wrath, who have drunk to the dregs the bowl, the cup of staggering.
Isa 51:18 There is none to guide her among all the sons she has borne; there is none to take her by the hand
among all the sons she has brought up.
Isa 51:19 These two things have happened to you- who will console you?- devastation and destruction, famine
and sword; who will comfort you?Isa 51:20 Your sons have fainted; they lie at the head of every street like an antelope in a net; they are full of the
wrath of the LORD, the rebuke of your God.
Isa 51:21 Therefore hear this, you who are afflicted, who are drunk, but not with wine:
Isa 51:22 Thus says your Lord, the LORD, your God who pleads the cause of his people: "Behold, I have taken
from your hand the cup of staggering; the bowl of my wrath you shall drink no more;
Isa 51:23 and I will put it into the hand of your tormentors, who have said to you, 'Bow down, that we may pass
over'; and you have made your back like the ground and like the street for them to pass over."
Isa 52:1 Awake, awake, put on your strength, O Zion; put on your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy
city; for there shall no more come into you the uncircumcised and the unclean.
Isa 52:2 Shake yourself from the dust and arise; be seated, O Jerusalem; loose the bonds from your neck, O
captive daughter of Zion.
Isa 52:3 For thus says the LORD: "You were sold for nothing, and you shall be redeemed without money."
Isa 52:4 For thus says the Lord GOD: "My people went down at the first into Egypt to sojourn there, and the
Assyrian oppressed them for nothing.
Isa 52:5 Now therefore what have I here," declares the LORD, "seeing that my people are taken away for
nothing? Their rulers wail," declares the LORD, "and continually all the day my name is despised.
Isa 52:6 Therefore my people shall know my name. Therefore in that day they shall know that it is I who speak;
here am I."
Isa 52:7 How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who publishes peace,
who brings good news of happiness, who publishes salvation, who says to Zion, "Your God reigns."
Isa 52:8 The voice of your watchmen- they lift up their voice; together they sing for joy; for eye to eye they see
the return of the LORD to Zion.
Isa 52:9 Break forth together into singing, you waste places of Jerusalem, for the LORD has comforted his
people; he has redeemed Jerusalem.
Isa 52:10 The LORD has bared his holy arm before the eyes of all the nations, and all the ends of the earth shall
see the salvation of our God.
Isa 52:11 Depart, depart, go out from there; touch no unclean thing; go out from the midst of her; purify
yourselves, you who bear the vessels of the LORD.
Isa 52:12 For you shall not go out in haste, and you shall not go in flight, for the LORD will go before you, and
the God of Israel will be your rear guard.
Isa 52:13 Behold, my servant shall act wisely; he shall be high and lifted up, and shall be exalted.
Isa 52:14 As many were astonished at you- his appearance was so marred, beyond human semblance, and his
form beyond that of the children of mankindIsa 52:15 so shall he sprinkle many nations; kings shall shut their mouths because of him; for that which has not
been told them they see, and that which they have not heard they understand.
Isa 53:1 Who has believed what they heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the LORD been revealed?
Isa 53:2 For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of dry ground; he had no form or
majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him.
Isa 53:3 He was despised and rejected by men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief; and as one from
whom men hide their faces he was despised, and we esteemed him not.
Isa 53:4 Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows; yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God,
and afflicted.
Isa 53:5 But he was wounded for our transgressions; he was crushed for our iniquities; upon him was the
chastisement that brought us peace, and with his stripes we are healed.
Isa 53:6 All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the LORD has laid
on him the iniquity of us all.
Isa 53:7 He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth; like a lamb that is led to the
slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth.
Isa 53:8 By oppression and judgment he was taken away; and as for his generation, who considered that he
was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people?
Isa 53:9 And they made his grave with the wicked and with a rich man in his death, although he had done no
violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth.
Isa 53:10 Yet it was the will of the LORD to crush him; he has put him to grief; when his soul makes an offering
for sin, he shall see his offspring; he shall prolong his days; the will of the LORD shall prosper in his hand.
Isa 53:11 Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied; by his knowledge shall the righteous one,
my servant, make many to be accounted righteous, and he shall bear their iniquities.
Isa 53:12 Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong,
because he poured out his soul to death and was numbered with the transgressors; yet he bore the sin of many,
and makes intercession for the transgressors.Isa 54:1 "Sing, O barren one, who did not bear; break forth into singing and cry aloud, you who have not been in
labor! For the children of the desolate one will be more than the children of her who is married," says the LORD.
Isa 54:2 "Enlarge the place of your tent, and let the curtains of your habitations be stretched out; do not hold
back; lengthen your cords and strengthen your stakes.
Isa 54:3 For you will spread abroad to the right and to the left, and your offspring will possess the nations and
will people the desolate cities.
Isa 54:4 "Fear not, for you will not be ashamed; be not confounded, for you will not be disgraced; for you will
forget the shame of your youth, and the reproach of your widowhood you will remember no more.
Isa 54:5 For your Maker is your husband, the LORD of hosts is his name; and the Holy One of Israel is your
Redeemer, the God of the whole earth he is called.
Isa 54:6 For the LORD has called you like a wife deserted and grieved in spirit, like a wife of youth when she is
cast off, says your God.
Isa 54:7 For a brief moment I deserted you, but with great compassion I will gather you.
Isa 54:8 In overflowing anger for a moment I hid my face from you, but with everlasting love I will have
compassion on you," says the LORD, your Redeemer.
Isa 54:9 "This is like the days of Noah to me: as I swore that the waters of Noah should no more go over the
earth, so I have sworn that I will not be angry with you, and will not rebuke you.
Isa 54:10 For the mountains may depart and the hills be removed, but my steadfast love shall not depart from
you, and my covenant of peace shall not be removed," says the LORD, who has compassion on you.
Isa 54:11 "O afflicted one, storm-tossed and not comforted, behold, I will set your stones in antimony, and lay
your foundations with sapphires.
Isa 54:12 I will make your pinnacles of agate, your gates of carbuncles, and all your wall of precious stones.
Isa 54:13 All your children shall be taught by the LORD, and great shall be the peace of your children.
Isa 54:14 In righteousness you shall be established; you shall be far from oppression, for you shall not fear; and
from terror, for it shall not come near you.
Isa 54:15 If anyone stirs up strife, it is not from me; whoever stirs up strife with you shall fall because of you.
Isa 54:16 Behold, I have created the smith who blows the fire of coals and produces a weapon for its purpose. I
have also created the ravager to destroy;
Isa 54:17 no weapon that is fashioned against you shall succeed, and you shall confute every tongue that rises
against you in judgment. This is the heritage of the servants of the LORD and their vindication from me, declares
the LORD."
Isa 55:1 "Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters; and he who has no money, come, buy and eat!
Come, buy wine and milk without money and without price.
Isa 55:2 Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not
satisfy? Listen diligently to me, and eat what is good, and delight yourselves in rich food.
Isa 55:3 Incline your ear, and come to me; hear, that your soul may live; and I will make with you an everlasting
covenant, my steadfast, sure love for David.
Isa 55:4 Behold, I made him a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander for the peoples.
Isa 55:5 Behold, you shall call a nation that you do not know, and a nation that did not know you shall run to
you, because of the LORD your God, and of the Holy One of Israel, for he has glorified you.
Isa 55:6 "Seek the LORD while he may be found; call upon him while he is near;
Isa 55:7 let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts; let him return to the LORD, that
he may have compassion on him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.
Isa 55:8 For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the LORD.
Isa 55:9 For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts
than your thoughts.
Isa 55:10 "For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven and do not return there but water the earth,
making it bring forth and sprout, giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater,
Isa 55:11 so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth; it shall not return to me empty, but it shall
accomplish that which I purpose, and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it.
Isa 55:12 "For you shall go out in joy and be led forth in peace; the mountains and the hills before you shall
break forth into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands.
Isa 55:13 Instead of the thorn shall come up the cypress; instead of the brier shall come up the myrtle; and it
shall make a name for the LORD, an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off."
Isa 56:1 Thus says the LORD:"Keep justice, and do righteousness, for soon my salvation will come, and my
deliverance be revealed.
Isa 56:2 Blessed is the man who does this, and the son of man who holds it fast, who keeps the Sabbath, not
profaning it, and keeps his hand from doing any evil."
Isa 56:3 Let not the foreigner who has joined himself to the LORD say, "The LORD will surely separate me fromhis people"; and let not the eunuch say, "Behold, I am a dry tree."
Isa 56:4 For thus says the LORD: "To the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths, who choose the things that please
me and hold fast my covenant,
Isa 56:5 I will give in my house and within my walls a monument and a name better than sons and daughters; I
will give them an everlasting name that shall not be cut off.
Isa 56:6 "And the foreigners who join themselves to the LORD, to minister to him, to love the name of the
LORD, and to be his servants, everyone who keeps the Sabbath and does not profane it, and holds fast my
covenantIsa 56:7 these I will bring to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer; their burnt offerings
and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar; for my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples."
Isa 56:8 The Lord GOD, who gathers the outcasts of Israel, declares, "I will gather yet others to him besides
those already gathered."
Isa 56:9 All you beasts of the field, come to devour- all you beasts in the forest.
Isa 56:10 His watchmen are blind; they are all without knowledge; they are all silent dogs; they cannot bark,
dreaming, lying down, loving to slumber.
Isa 56:11 The dogs have a mighty appetite; they never have enough. But they are shepherds who have no
understanding; they have all turned to their own way, each to his own gain, one and all.
Isa 56:12 "Come," they say, "let me get wine; let us fill ourselves with strong drink; and tomorrow will be like this
day, great beyond measure."
Isa 57:1 The righteous man perishes,and no one lays it to heart; devout men are taken away, while no one
understands. For the righteous man is taken away from calamity;
Isa 57:2 he enters into peace; they rest in their beds who walk in their uprightness.
Isa 57:3 But you, draw near, sons of the sorceress, offspring of the adulterer and the loose woman.
Isa 57:4 Whom are you mocking? Against whom do you open your mouth wide and stick out your tongue? Are
you not children of transgression, the offspring of deceit,
Isa 57:5 you who burn with lust among the oaks, under every green tree, who slaughter your children in the
valleys, under the clefts of the rocks?
Isa 57:6 Among the smooth stones of the valley is your portion; they, they, are your lot; to them you have
poured out a drink offering, you have brought a grain offering. Shall I relent for these things?
Isa 57:7 On a high and lofty mountain you have set your bed, and there you went up to offer sacrifice.
Isa 57:8 Behind the door and the doorpost you have set up your memorial; for, deserting me, you have
uncovered your bed, you have gone up to it, you have made it wide; and you have made a covenant for yourself
with them, you have loved their bed, you have looked on nakedness.
Isa 57:9 You journeyed to the king with oil and multiplied your perfumes; you sent your envoys far off, and sent
down even to Sheol.
Isa 57:10 You were wearied with the length of your way, but you did not say, "It is hopeless"; you found new life
for your strength, and so you were not faint.
Isa 57:11 Whom did you dread and fear, so that you lied, and did not remember me, did not lay it to heart? Have
I not held my peace, even for a long time, and you do not fear me?
Isa 57:12 I will declare your righteousness and your deeds, but they will not profit you.
Isa 57:13 When you cry out, let your collection of idols deliver you! The wind will carry them off, a breath will
take them away. But he who takes refuge in me shall possess the land and shall inherit my holy mountain.
Isa 57:14 And it shall be said, "Build up, build up, prepare the way, remove every obstruction from my people's
way."
Isa 57:15 For thus says the One who is high and lifted up, who inhabits eternity, whose name is Holy: "I dwell in
the high and holy place, and also with him who is of a contrite and lowly spirit, to revive the spirit of the lowly,
and to revive the heart of the contrite.
Isa 57:16 For I will not contend forever, nor will I always be angry; for the spirit would grow faint before me, and
the breath of life that I made.
Isa 57:17 Because of the iniquity of his unjust gain I was angry, I struck him; I hid my face and was angry, but
he went on backsliding in the way of his own heart.
Isa 57:18 I have seen his ways, but I will heal him; I will lead him and restore comfort to him and his mourners,
Isa 57:19 creating the fruit of the lips. Peace, peace, to the far and to the near," says the LORD, "and I will heal
him.
Isa 57:20 But the wicked are like the tossing sea; for it cannot be quiet, and its waters toss up mire and dirt.
Isa 57:21 There is no peace," says my God, "for the wicked."
Isa 58:1 "Cry aloud; do not hold back; lift up your voice like a trumpet; declare to my people their transgression,
to the house of Jacob their sins.
Isa 58:2 Yet they seek me daily and delight to know my ways, as if they were a nation that did righteousnessand did not forsake the judgment of their God; they ask of me righteous judgments; they delight to draw near to
God.
Isa 58:3 'Why have we fasted, and you see it not? Why have we humbled ourselves, and you take no
knowledge of it?' Behold, in the day of your fast you seek your own pleasure, and oppress all your workers.
Isa 58:4 Behold, you fast only to quarrel and to fight and to hit with a wicked fist. Fasting like yours this day will
not make your voice to be heard on high.
Isa 58:5 Is such the fast that I choose, a day for a person to humble himself? Is it to bow down his head like a
reed, and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? Will you call this a fast, and a day acceptable to the LORD?
Isa 58:6 "Is not this the fast that I choose: to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the straps of the yoke, to
let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke?
Isa 58:7 Is it not to share your bread with the hungry and bring the homeless poor into your house; when you
see the naked, to cover him, and not to hide yourself from your own flesh?
Isa 58:8 Then shall your light break forth like the dawn, and your healing shall spring up speedily; your
righteousness shall go before you; the glory of the LORD shall be your rear guard.
Isa 58:9 Then you shall call, and the LORD will answer; you shall cry, and he will say, 'Here I am.' If you take
away the yoke from your midst, the pointing of the finger, and speaking wickedness,
Isa 58:10 if you pour yourself out for the hungry and satisfy the desire of the afflicted, then shall your light rise in
the darkness and your gloom be as the noonday.
Isa 58:11 And the LORD will guide you continually and satisfy your desire in scorched places and make your
bones strong; and you shall be like a watered garden, like a spring of water, whose waters do not fail.
Isa 58:12 And your ancient ruins shall be rebuilt; you shall raise up the foundations of many generations; you
shall be called the repairer of the breach, the restorer of streets to dwell in.
Isa 58:13 "If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath, from doing your pleasure on my holy day, and call the
Sabbath a delight and the holy day of the LORD honorable; if you honor it, not going your own ways, or seeking
your own pleasure, or talking idly;
Isa 58:14 then you shall take delight in the LORD, and I will make you ride on the heights of the earth; I will feed
you with the heritage of Jacob your father, for the mouth of the LORD has spoken."
Isa 59:1 Behold, the LORD's hand is not shortened, that it cannot save, or his ear dull, that it cannot hear;
Isa 59:2 but your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his
face from you so that he does not hear.
Isa 59:3 For your hands are defiled with blood and your fingers with iniquity; your lips have spoken lies; your
tongue mutters wickedness.
Isa 59:4 No one enters suit justly; no one goes to law honestly; they rely on empty pleas, they speak lies, they
conceive mischief and give birth to iniquity.
Isa 59:5 They hatch adders' eggs; they weave the spider's web; he who eats their eggs dies, and from one that
is crushed a viper is hatched.
Isa 59:6 Their webs will not serve as clothing; men will not cover themselves with what they make. Their works
are works of iniquity, and deeds of violence are in their hands.
Isa 59:7 Their feet run to evil, and they are swift to shed innocent blood; their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity;
desolation and destruction are in their highways.
Isa 59:8 The way of peace they do not know, and there is no justice in their paths; they have made their roads
crooked; no one who treads on them knows peace.
Isa 59:9 Therefore justice is far from us, and righteousness does not overtake us; we hope for light, and behold,
darkness, and for brightness, but we walk in gloom.
Isa 59:10 We grope for the wall like the blind; we grope like those who have no eyes; we stumble at noon as in
the twilight, among those in full vigor we are like dead men.
Isa 59:11 We all growl like bears; we moan and moan like doves; we hope for justice, but there is none; for
salvation, but it is far from us.
Isa 59:12 For our transgressions are multiplied before you, and our sins testify against us; for our transgressions
are with us, and we know our iniquities:
Isa 59:13 transgressing, and denying the LORD, and turning back from following our God, speaking oppression
and revolt, conceiving and uttering from the heart lying words.
Isa 59:14 Justice is turned back, and righteousness stands afar off; for truth has stumbled in the public squares,
and uprightness cannot enter.
Isa 59:15 Truth is lacking, and he who departs from evil makes himself a prey. The LORD saw it, and it
displeased him that there was no justice.
Isa 59:16 He saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no one to intercede; then his own arm
brought him salvation, and his righteousness upheld him.
Isa 59:17 He put on righteousness as a breastplate, and a helmet of salvation on his head; he put on garmentsof vengeance for clothing, and wrapped himself in zeal as a cloak.
Isa 59:18 According to their deeds, so will he repay, wrath to his adversaries, repayment to his enemies; to the
coastlands he will render repayment.
Isa 59:19 So they shall fear the name of the LORD from the west, and his glory from the rising of the sun; for he
will come like a rushing stream, which the wind of the LORD drives.
Isa 59:20 "And a Redeemer will come to Zion, to those in Jacob who turn from transgression," declares the
LORD.
Isa 59:21 "And as for me, this is my covenant with them," says the LORD: "My Spirit that is upon you, and my
words that I have put in your mouth, shall not depart out of your mouth, or out of the mouth of your offspring, or
out of the mouth of your children's offspring," says the LORD, "from this time forth and forevermore."
Isa 60:1 Arise, shine, for your light has come, and the glory of the LORD has risen upon you.
Isa 60:2 For behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and thick darkness the peoples; but the LORD will arise
upon you, and his glory will be seen upon you.
Isa 60:3 And nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising.
Isa 60:4 Lift up your eyes all around, and see; they all gather together, they come to you; your sons shall come
from far, and your daughters shall be carried on the hip.
Isa 60:5 Then you shall see and be radiant; your heart shall thrill and exult, because the abundance of the sea
shall be turned to you, the wealth of the nations shall come to you.
Isa 60:6 A multitude of camels shall cover you, the young camels of Midian and Ephah; all those from Sheba
shall come. They shall bring gold and frankincense, and shall bring good news, the praises of the LORD.
Isa 60:7 All the flocks of Kedar shall be gathered to you; the rams of Nebaioth shall minister to you; they shall
come up with acceptance on my altar, and I will beautify my beautiful house.
Isa 60:8 Who are these that fly like a cloud, and like doves to their windows?
Isa 60:9 For the coastlands shall hope for me, the ships of Tarshish first, to bring your children from afar, their
silver and gold with them, for the name of the LORD your God, and for the Holy One of Israel, because he has
made you beautiful.
Isa 60:10 Foreigners shall build up your walls, and their kings shall minister to you; for in my wrath I struck you,
but in my favor I have had mercy on you.
Isa 60:11 Your gates shall be open continually; day and night they shall not be shut, that people may bring to
you the wealth of the nations, with their kings led in procession.
Isa 60:12 For the nation and kingdom that will not serve you shall perish; those nations shall be utterly laid
waste.
Isa 60:13 The glory of Lebanon shall come to you, the cypress, the plane, and the pine, to beautify the place of
my sanctuary, and I will make the place of my feet glorious.
Isa 60:14 The sons of those who afflicted you shall come bending low to you, and all who despised you shall
bow down at your feet; they shall call you the City of the LORD, the Zion of the Holy One of Israel.
Isa 60:15 Whereas you have been forsaken and hated, with no one passing through, I will make you majestic
forever, a joy from age to age.
Isa 60:16 You shall suck the milk of nations; you shall nurse at the breast of kings; and you shall know that I, the
LORD, am your Savior and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.
Isa 60:17 Instead of bronze I will bring gold, and instead of iron I will bring silver; instead of wood, bronze,
instead of stones, iron. I will make your overseers peace and your taskmasters righteousness.
Isa 60:18 Violence shall no more be heard in your land, devastation or destruction within your borders; you shall
call your walls Salvation, and your gates Praise.
Isa 60:19 The sun shall be no more your light by day, nor for brightness shall the moon give you light; but the
LORD will be your everlasting light, and your God will be your glory.
Isa 60:20 Your sun shall no more go down, nor your moon withdraw itself; for the LORD will be your everlasting
light, and your days of mourning shall be ended.
Isa 60:21 Your people shall all be righteous; they shall possess the land forever, the branch of my planting, the
work of my hands, that I might be glorified.
Isa 60:22 The least one shall become a clan, and the smallest one a mighty nation; I am the LORD; in its time I
will hasten it.
Isa 61:1 The Spirit of the Lord GOD is upon me, because the LORD has anointed me to bring good news to the
poor; he has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the
prison to those who are bound;
Isa 61:2 to proclaim the year of the LORD's favor, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all who
mourn;
Isa 61:3 to grant to those who mourn in Zion- to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes, the oil of
gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit; that they may be called oaks ofrighteousness, the planting of the LORD, that he may be glorified.
Isa 61:4 They shall build up the ancient ruins; they shall raise up the former devastations; they shall repair the
ruined cities, the devastations of many generations.
Isa 61:5 Strangers shall stand and tend your flocks; foreigners shall be your plowmen and vinedressers;
Isa 61:6 but you shall be called the priests of the LORD; they shall speak of you as the ministers of our God;
you shall eat the wealth of the nations, and in their glory you shall boast.
Isa 61:7 Instead of your shame there shall be a double portion; instead of dishonor they shall rejoice in their lot;
therefore in their land they shall possess a double portion; they shall have everlasting joy.
Isa 61:8 For I the LORD love justice; I hate robbery and wrong; I will faithfully give them their recompense, and I
will make an everlasting covenant with them.
Isa 61:9 Their offspring shall be known among the nations, and their descendants in the midst of the peoples; all
who see them shall acknowledge them, that they are an offspring the LORD has blessed.
Isa 61:10 I will greatly rejoice in the LORD; my soul shall exult in my God, for he has clothed me with the
garments of salvation; he has covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decks himself like a
priest with a beautiful headdress, and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels.
Isa 61:11 For as the earth brings forth its sprouts, and as a garden causes what is sown in it to sprout up, so the
Lord GOD will cause righteousness and praise to sprout up before all the nations.
Isa 62:1 For Zion's sake I will not keep silent, and for Jerusalem's sake I will not be quiet, until her righteousness
goes forth as brightness, and her salvation as a burning torch.
Isa 62:2 The nations shall see your righteousness, and all the kings your glory, and you shall be called by a new
name that the mouth of the LORD will give.
Isa 62:3 You shall be a crown of beauty in the hand of the LORD, and a royal diadem in the hand of your God.
Isa 62:4 You shall no more be termed Forsaken, and your land shall no more be termed Desolate, but you shall
be called My Delight Is in Her, and your land Married; for the LORD delights in you, and your land shall be
married.
Isa 62:5 For as a young man marries a young woman, so shall your sons marry you, and as the bridegroom
rejoices over the bride, so shall your God rejoice over you.
Isa 62:6 On your walls, O Jerusalem, I have set watchmen; all the day and all the night they shall never be
silent. You who put the LORD in remembrance, take no rest,
Isa 62:7 and give him no rest until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth.
Isa 62:8 The LORD has sworn by his right hand and by his mighty arm: "I will not again give your grain to be
food for your enemies, and foreigners shall not drink your wine for which you have labored;
Isa 62:9 but those who garner it shall eat it and praise the LORD, and those who gather it shall drink it in the
courts of my sanctuary."
Isa 62:10 Go through, go through the gates; prepare the way for the people; build up, build up the highway;
clear it of stones; lift up a signal over the peoples.
Isa 62:11 Behold, the LORD has proclaimed to the end of the earth: Say to the daughter of Zion, "Behold, your
salvation comes; behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him."
Isa 62:12 And they shall be called The Holy People, The Redeemed of the LORD; and you shall be called
Sought Out, A City Not Forsaken.
Isa 63:1 Who is this who comes from Edom, in crimsoned garments from Bozrah, he who is splendid in his
apparel, marching in the greatness of his strength? "It is I, speaking in righteousness, mighty to save."
Isa 63:2 Why is your apparel red, and your garments like his who treads in the winepress?
Isa 63:3 "I have trodden the winepress alone, and from the peoples no one was with me; I trod them in my
anger and trampled them in my wrath; their lifeblood spattered on my garments, and stained all my apparel.
Isa 63:4 For the day of vengeance was in my heart, and my year of redemption had come.
Isa 63:5 I looked, but there was no one to help; I was appalled, but there was no one to uphold; so my own arm
brought me salvation, and my wrath upheld me.
Isa 63:6 I trampled down the peoples in my anger; I made them drunk in my wrath, and I poured out their
lifeblood on the earth."
Isa 63:7 I will recount the steadfast love of the LORD, the praises of the LORD, according to all that the LORD
has granted us, and the great goodness to the house of Israel that he has granted them according to his
compassion, according to the abundance of his steadfast love.
Isa 63:8 For he said, "Surely they are my people, children who will not deal falsely." And he became their
Savior.
Isa 63:9 In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his presence saved them; in his love and in his
pity he redeemed them; he lifted them up and carried them all the days of old.
Isa 63:10 But they rebelled and grieved his Holy Spirit; therefore he turned to be their enemy, and himself fought
against them.Isa 63:11 Then he remembered the days of old, of Moses and his people. Where is he who brought them up out
of the sea with the shepherds of his flock? Where is he who put in the midst of them his Holy Spirit,
Isa 63:12 who caused his glorious arm to go at the right hand of Moses, who divided the waters before them to
make for himself an everlasting name,
Isa 63:13 who led them through the depths? Like a horse in the desert, they did not stumble.
Isa 63:14 Like livestock that go down into the valley, the Spirit of the LORD gave them rest. So you led your
people, to make for yourself a glorious name.
Isa 63:15 Look down from heaven and see, from your holy and beautiful habitation. Where are your zeal and
your might? The stirring of your inner parts and your compassion are held back from me.
Isa 63:16 For you are our Father, though Abraham does not know us, and Israel does not acknowledge us; you,
O LORD, are our Father, our Redeemer from of old is your name.
Isa 63:17 O LORD, why do you make us wander from your ways and harden our heart, so that we fear you not?
Return for the sake of your servants, the tribes of your heritage.
Isa 63:18 Your holy people held possession for a little while; our adversaries have trampled down your
sanctuary.
Isa 63:19 We have become like those over whom you have never ruled, like those who are not called by your
name.
Isa 64:1 Oh that you would rend the heavens and come down, that the mountains might quake at your
presenceIsa 64:2 as when fire kindles brushwood and the fire causes water to boil- to make your name known to your
adversaries, and that the nations might tremble at your presence!
Isa 64:3 When you did awesome things that we did not look for, you came down, the mountains quaked at your
presence.
Isa 64:4 From of old no one has heard or perceived by the ear, no eye has seen a God besides you, who acts
for those who wait for him.
Isa 64:5 You meet him who joyfully works righteousness, those who remember you in your ways. Behold, you
were angry, and we sinned; in our sins we have been a long time, and shall we be saved?
Isa 64:6 We have all become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment.
We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind, take us away.
Isa 64:7 There is no one who calls upon your name, who rouses himself to take hold of you; for you have hidden
your face from us, and have made us melt in the hand of our iniquities.
Isa 64:8 But now, O LORD, you are our Father; we are the clay, and you are our potter; we are all the work of
your hand.
Isa 64:9 Be not so terribly angry, O LORD, and remember not iniquity forever. Behold, please look, we are all
your people.
Isa 64:10 Your holy cities have become a wilderness; Zion has become a wilderness, Jerusalem a desolation.
Isa 64:11 Our holy and beautiful house, where our fathers praised you, has been burned by fire, and all our
pleasant places have become ruins.
Isa 64:12 Will you restrain yourself at these things, O LORD? Will you keep silent, and afflict us so terribly?
Isa 65:1 I was ready to be sought by those who did not ask for me; I was ready to be found by those who did not
seek me. I said, "Here am I, here am I," to a nation that was not called by my name.
Isa 65:2 I spread out my hands all the day to a rebellious people, who walk in a way that is not good, following
their own devices;
Isa 65:3 a people who provoke me to my face continually, sacrificing in gardens and making offerings on bricks;
Isa 65:4 who sit in tombs, and spend the night in secret places; who eat pig's flesh, and broth of tainted meat is
in their vessels;
Isa 65:5 who say, "Keep to yourself, do not come near me, for I am too holy for you." These are a smoke in my
nostrils, a fire that burns all the day.
Isa 65:6 Behold, it is written before me: "I will not keep silent, but I will repay; I will indeed repay into their bosom
Isa 65:7 both your iniquities and your fathers' iniquities together, says the LORD; because they made offerings
on the mountains and insulted me on the hills, I will measure into their bosom payment for their formerdeeds."
Isa 65:8 Thus says the LORD: "As the new wine is found in the cluster, and they say, 'Do not destroy it, for there
is a blessing in it,' so I will do for my servants' sake, and not destroy them all.
Isa 65:9 I will bring forth offspring from Jacob, and from Judah possessors of my mountains; my chosen shall
possess it, and my servants shall dwell there.
Isa 65:10 Sharon shall become a pasture for flocks, and the Valley of Achor a place for herds to lie down, for my
people who have sought me.
Isa 65:11 But you who forsake the LORD, who forget my holy mountain, who set a table for Fortune and fill cups
of mixed wine for Destiny,Isa 65:12 I will destine you to the sword, and all of you shall bow down to the slaughter, because, when I called,
you did not answer; when I spoke, you did not listen, but you did what was evil in my eyes and chose what I did
not delight in."
Isa 65:13 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, my servants shall eat, but you shall be hungry; behold,
my servants shall drink, but you shall be thirsty; behold, my servants shall rejoice, but you shall be put to shame;
Isa 65:14 behold, my servants shall sing for gladness of heart, but you shall cry out for pain of heart and shall
wail for breaking of spirit.
Isa 65:15 You shall leave your name to my chosen for a curse, and the Lord GOD will put you to death, but his
servants he will call by another name.
Isa 65:16 So that he who blesses himself in the land shall bless himself by the God of truth, and he who takes
an oath in the land shall swear by the God of truth; because the former troubles are forgotten and are hidden
from my eyes.
Isa 65:17 "For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered or
come into mind.
Isa 65:18 But be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create; for behold, I create Jerusalem to be a joy, and
her people to be a gladness.
Isa 65:19 I will rejoice in Jerusalem and be glad in my people; no more shall be heard in it the sound of weeping
and the cry of distress.
Isa 65:20 No more shall there be in it an infant who lives but a few days, or an old man who does not fill out his
days, for the young man shall die a hundred years old, and the sinner a hundred years old shall be accursed.
Isa 65:21 They shall build houses and inhabit them; they shall plant vineyards and eat their fruit.
Isa 65:22 They shall not build and another inhabit; they shall not plant and another eat; for like the days of a tree
shall the days of my people be, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hands.
Isa 65:23 They shall not labor in vain or bear children for calamity, for they shall be the offspring of the blessed
of the LORD, and their descendants with them.
Isa 65:24 Before they call I will answer; while they are yet speaking I will hear.
Isa 65:25 The wolf and the lamb shall graze together; the lion shall eat straw like the ox, and dust shall be the
serpent's food. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain," says the LORD.
Isa 66:1 Thus says the LORD: "Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool; what is the house that you
would build for me, and what is the place of my rest?
Isa 66:2 All these things my hand has made, and so all these things came to be, declares the LORD. But this is
the one to whom I will look: he who is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at my word.
Isa 66:3 "He who slaughters an ox is like one who kills a man; he who sacrifices a lamb, like one who breaks a
dog's neck; he who presents a grain offering, like one who offers pig's blood; he who makes a memorial offering
of frankincense, like one who blesses an idol. These have chosen their own ways, and their soul delights in their
abominations;
Isa 66:4 I also will choose harsh treatment for them and bring their fears upon them, because when I called, no
one answered, when I spoke they did not listen; but they did what was evil in my eyes and chose that in which I
did not delight."
Isa 66:5 Hear the word of the LORD, you who tremble at his word: "Your brothers who hate you and cast you
out for my name's sake have said, 'Let the LORD be glorified, that we may see your joy'; but it is they who shall
be put to shame.
Isa 66:6 "The sound of an uproar from the city! A sound from the temple! The sound of the LORD, rendering
recompense to his enemies!
Isa 66:7 "Before she was in labor she gave birth; before her pain came upon her she delivered a son.
Isa 66:8 Who has heard such a thing? Who has seen such things? Shall a land be born in one day? Shall a
nation be brought forth in one moment? For as soon as Zion was in labor she brought forth her children.
Isa 66:9 Shall I bring to the point of birth and not cause to bring forth?" says the LORD; "shall I, who cause to
bring forth, shut the womb?" says your God.
Isa 66:10 "Rejoice with Jerusalem, and be glad for her, all you who love her; rejoice with her in joy, all you who
mourn over her;
Isa 66:11 that you may nurse and be satisfied from her consoling breast; that you may drink deeply with delight
from her glorious abundance."
Isa 66:12 For thus says the LORD: "Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the nations
like an overflowing stream; and you shall nurse, you shall be carried upon her hip, and bounced upon her knees.
Isa 66:13 As one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you; you shall be comforted in Jerusalem.
Isa 66:14 You shall see, and your heart shall rejoice; your bones shall flourish like the grass; and the hand of
the LORD shall be known to his servants, and he shall show his indignation against his enemies.
Isa 66:15 "For behold, the LORD will come in fire, and his chariots like the whirlwind, to render his anger in fury,and his rebuke with flames of fire.
Isa 66:16 For by fire will the LORD enter into judgment, and by his sword, with all flesh; and those slain by the
LORD shall be many.
Isa 66:17 "Those who sanctify and purify themselves to go into the gardens, following one in the midst, eating
pig's flesh and the abomination and mice, shall come to an end together, declares the LORD.
Isa 66:18 "For I know their works and their thoughts, and the time is coming to gather all nations and tongues.
And they shall come and shall see my glory,
Isa 66:19 and I will set a sign among them. And from them I will send survivors to the nations, to Tarshish, Pul,
and Lud, who draw the bow, to Tubal and Javan, to the coastlands afar off, that have not heard my fame or seen
my glory. And they shall declare my glory among the nations.
Isa 66:20 And they shall bring all your brothers from all the nations as an offering to the LORD, on horses and in
chariots and in litters and on mules and on dromedaries, to my holy mountain Jerusalem, says the LORD, just as
the Israelites bring their grain offering in a clean vessel to the house of the LORD.
Isa 66:21 And some of them also I will take for priests and for Levites, says the LORD.
Isa 66:22 "For as the new heavens and the new earth that I make shall remain before me, says the LORD, so
shall your offspring and your name remain.
Isa 66:23 From new moon to new moon, and from Sabbath to Sabbath, all flesh shall come to worship before
me, declares the LORD.
Isa 66:24 "And they shall go out and look on the dead bodies of the men who have rebelled against me. For
their worm shall not die, their fire shall not be quenched, and they shall be an abhorrence to all flesh."
Jer 1:1 The words of Jeremiah, the son of Hilkiah, one of the priests who were in Anathoth in the land of
Benjamin,
Jer 1:2 to whom the word of the LORD came in the days of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah, in the
thirteenth year of his reign.
Jer 1:3 It came also in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, and until the end of the eleventh
year of Zedekiah, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, until the captivity of Jerusalem in the fifth month.
Jer 1:4 Now the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Jer 1:5 "Before I formed you in the womb I knew you, and before you were born I consecrated you; I appointed
you a prophet to the nations."
Jer 1:6 Then I said, "Ah, Lord GOD! Behold, I do not know how to speak, for I am only a youth."
Jer 1:7 But the LORD said to me, "Do not say, 'I am only a youth'; for to all to whom I send you, you shall go,
and whatever I command you, you shall speak.
Jer 1:8 Do not be afraid of them, for I am with you to deliver you, declares the LORD."
Jer 1:9 Then the LORD put out his hand and touched my mouth. And the LORD said to me, "Behold, I have put
my words in your mouth.
Jer 1:10 See, I have set you this day over nations and over kingdoms, to pluck up and to break down, to destroy
and to overthrow, to build and to plant."
Jer 1:11 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying, "Jeremiah, what do you see?" And I said, "I see an
almond branch."
Jer 1:12 Then the LORD said to me, "You have seen well, for I am watching over my word to perform it."
Jer 1:13 The word of the LORD came to me a second time, saying, "What do you see?" And I said, "I see a
boiling pot, facing away from the north."
Jer 1:14 Then the LORD said to me, "Out of the north disaster shall be let loose upon all the inhabitants of the
land.
Jer 1:15 For behold, I am calling all the tribes of the kingdoms of the north, declares the LORD, and they shall
come, and every one shall set his throne at the entrance of the gates of Jerusalem, against all its walls all
around and against all the cities of Judah.
Jer 1:16 And I will declare my judgments against them, for all their evil in forsaking me. They have made
offerings to other gods and worshiped the works of their own hands.
Jer 1:17 But you, dress yourself for work; arise, and say to them everything that I command you. Do not be
dismayed by them, lest I dismay you before them.
Jer 1:18 And I, behold, I make you this day a fortified city, an iron pillar, and bronze walls, against the whole
land, against the kings of Judah, its officials, its priests, and the people of the land.
Jer 1:19 They will fight against you, but they shall not prevail against you, for I am with you, declares the LORD,
to deliver you."
Jer 2:1 The word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Jer 2:2 "Go and proclaim in the hearing of Jerusalem, Thus says the LORD, "I remember the devotion of your
youth, your love as a bride, how you followed me in the wilderness, in a land not sown.
Jer 2:3 Israel was holy to the LORD, the firstfruits of his harvest. All who ate of it incurred guilt; disaster cameupon them, declares the LORD."
Jer 2:4 Hear the word of the LORD, O house of Jacob, and all the clans of the house of Israel.
Jer 2:5 Thus says the LORD: "What wrong did your fathers find in me that they went far from me, and went after
worthlessness, and became worthless?
Jer 2:6 They did not say, 'Where is the LORD who brought us up from the land of Egypt, who led us in the
wilderness, in a land of deserts and pits, in a land of drought and deep darkness, in a land that none passes
through, where no man dwells?'
Jer 2:7 And I brought you into a plentiful land to enjoy its fruits and its good things. But when you came in, you
defiled my land and made my heritage an abomination.
Jer 2:8 The priests did not say, 'Where is the LORD?' Those who handle the law did not know me; the
shepherds transgressed against me; the prophets prophesied by Baal and went after things that do not profit.
Jer 2:9 "Therefore I still contend with you, declares the LORD, and with your children's children I will contend.
Jer 2:10 For cross to the coasts of Cyprus and see, or send to Kedar and examine with care; see if there has
been such a thing.
Jer 2:11 Has a nation changed its gods, even though they are no gods? But my people have changed their glory
for that which does not profit.
Jer 2:12 Be appalled, O heavens, at this; be shocked, be utterly desolate, declares the LORD,
Jer 2:13 for my people have committed two evils: they have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and
hewed out cisterns for themselves, broken cisterns that can hold no water.
Jer 2:14 "Is Israel a slave? Is he a homeborn servant? Why then has he become a prey?
Jer 2:15 The lions have roared against him; they have roared loudly. They have made his land a waste; his
cities are in ruins, without inhabitant.
Jer 2:16 Moreover, the men of Memphis and Tahpanhes have shaved the crown of your head.
Jer 2:17 Have you not brought this upon yourself by forsaking the LORD your God, when he led you in the way?
Jer 2:18 And now what do you gain by going to Egypt to drink the waters of the Nile? Or what do you gain by
going to Assyria to drink the waters of the Euphrates?
Jer 2:19 Your evil will chastise you, and your apostasy will reprove you. Know and see that it is evil and bitter for
you to forsake the LORD your God; the fear of me is not in you, declares the Lord GOD of hosts.
Jer 2:20 "For long ago I broke your yoke and burst your bonds; but you said, 'I will not serve.' yes, on every high
hill and under every green tree you bowed down like a whore.
Jer 2:21 Yet I planted you a choice vine, wholly of pure seed. How then have you turned degenerate and
become a wild vine?
Jer 2:22 Though you wash yourself with lye and use much soap, the stain of your guilt is still before me,
declares the Lord GOD.
Jer 2:23 How can you say, 'I am not unclean, I have not gone after the Baals'? Look at your way in the valley;
know what you have done- a restless young camel running here and there,
Jer 2:24 a wild donkey used to the wilderness, in her heat sniffing the wind! Who can restrain her lust? None
who seek her need weary themselves; in her month they will find her.
Jer 2:25 Keep your feet from going unshod and your throat from thirst. But you said, 'It is hopeless, for I have
loved foreigners, and after them I will go.'
Jer 2:26 "As a thief is shamed when caught, so the house of Israel shall be shamed: they, their kings, their
officials, their priests, and their prophets,
Jer 2:27 who say to a tree, 'You are my father,' and to a stone, 'You gave me birth.' For they have turned their
back to me, and not their face. But in the time of their trouble they say, 'Arise and save us!'
Jer 2:28 But where are your gods that you made for yourself? Let them arise, if they can save you, in your time
of trouble; for as many as your cities are your gods, O Judah.
Jer 2:29 "Why do you contend with me? You have all transgressed against me, declares the LORD.
Jer 2:30 In vain have I struck your children; they took no correction; your own sword devoured your prophets
like a ravening lion.
Jer 2:31 And you, O generation, behold the word of the LORD. Have I been a wilderness to Israel, or a land of
thick darkness? Why then do my people say, 'We are free, we will come no more to you'?
Jer 2:32 Can a virgin forget her ornaments, or a bride her attire? Yet my people have forgotten me days without
number.
Jer 2:33 "How well you direct your course to seek love! So that even to wicked women you have taught your
ways.
Jer 2:34 Also on your skirts is found the lifeblood of the guiltless poor; you did not find them breaking in. Yet in
spite of all these things
Jer 2:35 you say, 'I am innocent; surely his anger has turned from me.' Behold, I will bring you to judgment for
saying, 'I have not sinned.'Jer 2:36 How much you go about, changing your way! You shall be put to shame by Egypt as you were put to
shame by Assyria.
Jer 2:37 From it too you will come away with your hands on your head, for the LORD has rejected those in
whom you trust, and you will not prosper by them.
Jer 3:1 "If a man divorces his wifeand she goes from him and becomes another man's wife, will he return to
her? Would not that land be greatly polluted? You have played the whore with many lovers; and would you
return to me? declares the LORD.
Jer 3:2 Lift up your eyes to the bare heights, and see! Where have you not been ravished? By the waysides you
have sat awaiting lovers like an Arab in the wilderness. You have polluted the land with your vile whoredom.
Jer 3:3 Therefore the showers have been withheld, and the spring rain has not come; yet you have the forehead
of a whore; you refuse to be ashamed.
Jer 3:4 Have you not just now called to me, 'My father, you are the friend of my youthJer 3:5 will he be angry forever, will he be indignant to the end?' Behold, you have spoken, but you have done
all the evil that you could."
Jer 3:6 The LORD said to me in the days of King Josiah: "Have you seen what she did, that faithless one, Israel,
how she went up on every high hill and under every green tree, and there played the whore?
Jer 3:7 And I thought, 'After she has done all this she will return to me,' but she did not return, and her
treacherous sister Judah saw it.
Jer 3:8 She saw that for all the adulteries of that faithless one, Israel, I had sent her away with a decree of
divorce. Yet her treacherous sister Judah did not fear, but she too went and played the whore.
Jer 3:9 Because she took her whoredom lightly, she polluted the land, committing adultery with stone and tree.
Jer 3:10 Yet for all this her treacherous sister Judah did not return to me with her whole heart, but in pretense,
declares the LORD."
Jer 3:11 And the LORD said to me, "Faithless Israel has shown herself more righteous than treacherous Judah.
Jer 3:12 Go, and proclaim these words toward the north, and say, "' Return, faithless Israel, declares the LORD.
I will not look on you in anger, for I am merciful, declares the LORD; I will not be angry forever.
Jer 3:13 Only acknowledge your guilt, that you rebelled against the LORD your God and scattered your favors
among foreigners under every green tree, and that you have not obeyed my voice, declares the LORD.
Jer 3:14 Return, O faithless children, declares the LORD; for I am your master; I will take you, one from a city
and two from a family, and I will bring you to Zion.
Jer 3:15 "'And I will give you shepherds after my own heart, who will feed you with knowledge and
understanding.
Jer 3:16 And when you have multiplied and increased in the land, in those days, declares the LORD, they shall
no more say, "The ark of the covenant of the LORD." It shall not come to mind or be remembered or missed; it
shall not be made again.
Jer 3:17 At that time Jerusalem shall be called the throne of the LORD, and all nations shall gather to it, to the
presence of the LORD in Jerusalem, and they shall no more stubbornly follow their own evil heart.
Jer 3:18 In those days the house of Judah shall join the house of Israel, and together they shall come from the
land of the north to the land that I gave your fathers for a heritage.
Jer 3:19 "'I said How I would set you among my sons, and give you a pleasant land, a heritage most beautiful of
all nations. And I thought you would call me, My Father, and would not turn from following me.
Jer 3:20 Surely, as a treacherous wife leaves her husband, so have you been treacherous to me, O house of
Israel, declares the LORD.'"
Jer 3:21 A voice on the bare heights is heard, the weeping and pleading of Israel's sons because they have
perverted their way; they have forgotten the LORD their God.
Jer 3:22 "Return, O faithless sons; I will heal your faithlessness." "Behold, we come to you, for you are the
LORD our God.
Jer 3:23 Truly the hills are a delusion, the orgies on the mountains. Truly in the LORD our God is the salvation
of Israel.
Jer 3:24 "But from our youth the shameful thing has devoured all for which our fathers labored, their flocks and
their herds, their sons and their daughters.
Jer 3:25 Let us lie down in our shame, and let our dishonor cover us. For we have sinned against the LORD our
God, we and our fathers, from our youth even to this day, and we have not obeyed the voice of the LORD our
God."
Jer 4:1 "If you return, O Israel, declares the LORD, to me you should return. If you remove your detestable
things from my presence, and do not waver,
Jer 4:2 and if you swear, 'As the LORD lives,' in truth, in justice, and in righteousness, then nations shall bless
themselves in him, and in him shall they glory."
Jer 4:3 For thus says the LORD to the men of Judah and Jerusalem: "Break up your fallow ground, and sow notamong thorns.
Jer 4:4 Circumcise yourselves to the LORD; remove the foreskin of your hearts, O men of Judah and
inhabitants of Jerusalem; lest my wrath go forth like fire, and burn with none to quench it, because of the evil of
your deeds."
Jer 4:5 Declare in Judah, and proclaim in Jerusalem, and say, "Blow the trumpet through the land; cry aloud
and say, 'Assemble, and let us go into the fortified cities!'
Jer 4:6 Raise a standard toward Zion, flee for safety, stay not, for I bring disaster from the north, and great
destruction.
Jer 4:7 A lion has gone up from his thicket, a destroyer of nations has set out; he has gone out from his place to
make your land a waste; your cities will be ruins without inhabitant.
Jer 4:8 For this put on sackcloth, lament, and wail, for the fierce anger of the LORD has not turned back from
us."
Jer 4:9 "In that day, declares the LORD, courage shall fail both king and officials. The priests shall be appalled
and the prophets astounded."
Jer 4:10 Then I said, "Ah, Lord GOD, surely you have utterly deceived this people and Jerusalem, saying, 'It
shall be well with you,' whereas the sword has reached their very life."
Jer 4:11 At that time it will be said to this people and to Jerusalem, "A hot wind from the bare heights in the
desert toward the daughter of my people, not to winnow or cleanse,
Jer 4:12 a wind too full for this comes for me. Now it is I who speak in judgment upon them."
Jer 4:13 Behold, he comes up like clouds; his chariots like the whirlwind; his horses are swifter than eagles- woe
to us, for we are ruined!
Jer 4:14 O Jerusalem, wash your heart from evil, that you may be saved. How long shall your wicked thoughts
lodge within you?
Jer 4:15 For a voice declares from Dan and proclaims trouble from Mount Ephraim.
Jer 4:16 Warn the nations that he is coming; announce to Jerusalem, "Besiegers come from a distant land; they
shout against the cities of Judah.
Jer 4:17 Like keepers of a field are they against her all around, because she has rebelled against me, declares
the LORD.
Jer 4:18 Your ways and your deeds have brought this upon you. This is your doom, and it is bitter; it has
reached your very heart."
Jer 4:19 My anguish, my anguish! I writhe in pain! Oh the walls of my heart! My heart is beating wildly; I cannot
keep silent, for I hear the sound of the trumpet, the alarm of war.
Jer 4:20 Crash follows hard on crash; the whole land is laid waste. Suddenly my tents are laid waste, my
curtains in a moment.
Jer 4:21 How long must I see the standard and hear the sound of the trumpet?
Jer 4:22 "For my people are foolish; they know me not; they are stupid children; they have no understanding.
They are 'wise'- in doing evil! But how to do good they know not."
Jer 4:23 I looked on the earth, and behold, it was without form and void; and to the heavens, and they had no
light.
Jer 4:24 I looked on the mountains, and behold, they were quaking, and all the hills moved to and fro.
Jer 4:25 I looked, and behold, there was no man, and all the birds of the air had fled.
Jer 4:26 I looked, and behold, the fruitful land was a desert, and all its cities were laid in ruins before the LORD,
before his fierce anger.
Jer 4:27 For thus says the LORD, "The whole land shall be a desolation; yet I will not make a full end.
Jer 4:28 "For this the earth shall mourn, and the heavens above be dark; for I have spoken; I have purposed; I
have not relented, nor will I turn back."
Jer 4:29 At the noise of horseman and archer every city takes to flight; they enter thickets; they climb among
rocks; all the cities are forsaken, and no man dwells in them.
Jer 4:30 And you, O desolate one, what do you mean that you dress in scarlet, that you adorn yourself with
ornaments of gold, that you enlarge your eyes with paint? In vain you beautify yourself. Your lovers despise you;
they seek your life.
Jer 4:31 For I heard a cry as of a woman in labor, anguish as of one giving birth to her first child, the cry of the
daughter of Zion gasping for breath, stretching out her hands, "Woe is me! I am fainting before murderers."
Jer 5:1 Run to and fro through thestreets of Jerusalem, look and take note! Search her squares to see if you can
find a man, one who does justice and seeks truth, that I may pardon her.
Jer 5:2 Though they say, "As the LORD lives," yet they swear falsely.
Jer 5:3 O LORD, do not your eyes look for truth? You have struck them down, but they felt no anguish; you
have consumed them, but they refused to take correction. They have made their faces harder than rock; they
have refused to repent.Jer 5:4 Then I said, "These are only the poor; they have no sense; for they do not know the way of the LORD,
the justice of their God.
Jer 5:5 I will go to the great and will speak to them, for they know the way of the LORD, the justice of their God."
But they all alike had broken the yoke; they had burst the bonds.
Jer 5:6 Therefore a lion from the forest shall strike them down; a wolf from the desert shall devastate them. A
leopard is watching their cities; everyone who goes out of them shall be torn in pieces, because their
transgressions are many, their apostasies are great.
Jer 5:7 "How can I pardon you? Your children have forsaken me and have sworn by those who are no gods.
When I fed them to the full, they committed adultery and trooped to the houses of whores.
Jer 5:8 They were well-fed, lusty stallions, each neighing for his neighbor's wife.
Jer 5:9 Shall I not punish them for these things? declares the LORD; and shall I not avenge myself on a nation
such as this?
Jer 5:10 "Go up through her vine rows and destroy, but make not a full end; strip away her branches, for they
are not the LORD's.
Jer 5:11 For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have been utterly treacherous to me, declares the
LORD.
Jer 5:12 They have spoken falsely of the LORD and have said, 'He will do nothing; no disaster will come upon
us, nor shall we see sword or famine.
Jer 5:13 The prophets will become wind; the word is not in them. Thus shall it be done to them!'"
Jer 5:14 Therefore thus says the LORD, the God of hosts: "Because you have spoken this word, behold, I am
making my words in your mouth a fire, and this people wood, and the fire shall consume them.
Jer 5:15 Behold, I am bringing against you a nation from afar, O house of Israel, declares the LORD. It is an
enduring nation; it is an ancient nation, a nation whose language you do not know, nor can you understand what
they say.
Jer 5:16 Their quiver is like an open tomb; they are all mighty warriors.
Jer 5:17 They shall eat up your harvest and your food; they shall eat up your sons and your daughters; they
shall eat up your flocks and your herds; they shall eat up your vines and your fig trees; your fortified cities in
which you trust they shall beat down with the sword."
Jer 5:18 "But even in those days, declares the LORD, I will not make a full end of you.
Jer 5:19 And when your people say, 'Why has the LORD our God done all these things to us?' you shall say to
them, 'As you have forsaken me and served foreign gods in your land, so you shall serve foreigners in a land
that is not yours.'"
Jer 5:20 Declare this in the house of Jacob; proclaim it in Judah:
Jer 5:21 "Hear this, O foolish and senseless people, who have eyes, but see not, who have ears, but hear not.
Jer 5:22 Do you not fear me? declares the LORD; Do you not tremble before me? I placed the sand as the
boundary for the sea, a perpetual barrier that it cannot pass; though the waves toss, they cannot prevail; though
they roar, they cannot pass over it.
Jer 5:23 But this people has a stubborn and rebellious heart; they have turned aside and gone away.
Jer 5:24 They do not say in their hearts, 'Let us fear the LORD our God, who gives the rain in its season, the
autumn rain and the spring rain, and keeps for us the weeks appointed for the harvest.'
Jer 5:25 Your iniquities have turned these away, and your sins have kept good from you.
Jer 5:26 For wicked men are found among my people; they lurk like fowlers lying in wait. They set a trap; they
catch men.
Jer 5:27 Like a cage full of birds, their houses are full of deceit; therefore they have become great and rich;
Jer 5:28 they have grown fat and sleek. They know no bounds in deeds of evil; they judge not with justice the
cause of the fatherless, to make it prosper, and they do not defend the rights of the needy.
Jer 5:29 Shall I not punish them for these things? declares the LORD, and shall I not avenge myself on a nation
such as this?"
Jer 5:30 An appalling and horrible thing has happened in the land:
Jer 5:31 the prophets prophesy falsely, and the priests rule at their direction; my people love to have it so, but
what will you do when the end comes?
Jer 6:1 Flee for safety, O people of Benjamin, from the midst of Jerusalem! Blow the trumpet in Tekoa, and raise
a signal on Beth-haccherem, for disaster looms out of the north, and great destruction.
Jer 6:2 The lovely and delicately bred I will destroy, the daughter of Zion.
Jer 6:3 Shepherds with their flocks shall come against her; they shall pitch their tents around her; they shall
pasture, each in his place.
Jer 6:4 "Prepare war against her; arise, and let us attack at noon! Woe to us, for the day declines, for the
shadows of evening lengthen!
Jer 6:5 Arise, and let us attack by night and destroy her palaces!"Jer 6:6 For thus says the LORD of hosts: "Cut down her trees; cast up a siege mound against Jerusalem. This
is the city that must be punished; there is nothing but oppression within her.
Jer 6:7 As a well keeps its water fresh, so she keeps fresh her evil; violence and destruction are heard within
her; sickness and wounds are ever before me.
Jer 6:8 Be warned, O Jerusalem, lest I turn from you in disgust, lest I make you a desolation, an uninhabited
land."
Jer 6:9 Thus says the LORD of hosts: "They shall glean thoroughly as a vine the remnant of Israel; like a grapegatherer pass your hand again over its branches."
Jer 6:10 To whom shall I speak and give warning, that they may hear? Behold, their ears are uncircumcised,
they cannot listen; behold, the word of the LORD is to them an object of scorn; they take no pleasure in it.
Jer 6:11 Therefore I am full of the wrath of the LORD; I am weary of holding it in. "Pour it out upon the children
in the street, and upon the gatherings of young men, also; both husband and wife shall be taken, the elderly and
the very aged.
Jer 6:12 Their houses shall be turned over to others, their fields and wives together, for I will stretch out my
hand against the inhabitants of the land," declares the LORD.
Jer 6:13 "For from the least to the greatest of them, everyone is greedy for unjust gain; and from prophet to
priest, everyone deals falsely.
Jer 6:14 They have healed the wound of my people lightly, saying, 'Peace, peace,' when there is no peace.
Jer 6:15 Were they ashamed when they committed abomination? No, they were not at all ashamed; they did not
know how to blush. Therefore they shall fall among those who fall; at the time that I punish them, they shall be
overthrown," says the LORD.
Jer 6:16 Thus says the LORD: "Stand by the roads, and look, and ask for the ancient paths, where the good
way is; and walk in it, and find rest for your souls. But they said, 'We will not walk in it.'
Jer 6:17 I set watchmen over you, saying, 'Pay attention to the sound of the trumpet!' But they said, 'We will not
pay attention.'
Jer 6:18 Therefore hear, O nations, and know, O congregation, what will happen to them.
Jer 6:19 Hear, O earth; behold, I am bringing disaster upon this people, the fruit of their devices, because they
have not paid attention to my words; and as for my law, they have rejected it.
Jer 6:20 What use to me is frankincense that comes from Sheba, or sweet cane from a distant land? Your burnt
offerings are not acceptable, nor your sacrifices pleasing to me.
Jer 6:21 Therefore thus says the LORD: 'Behold, I will lay before this people stumbling blocks against which
they shall stumble; fathers and sons together, neighbor and friend shall perish.'"
Jer 6:22 Thus says the LORD: "Behold, a people is coming from the north country, a great nation is stirring from
the farthest parts of the earth.
Jer 6:23 They lay hold on bow and javelin; they are cruel and have no mercy; the sound of them is like the
roaring sea; they ride on horses, set in array as a man for battle, against you, O daughter of Zion!"
Jer 6:24 We have heard the report of it; our hands fall helpless; anguish has taken hold of us, pain as of a
woman in labor.
Jer 6:25 Go not out into the field, nor walk on the road, for the enemy has a sword; terror is on every side.
Jer 6:26 O daughter of my people, put on sackcloth, and roll in ashes; make mourning as for an only son, most
bitter lamentation, for suddenly the destroyer will come upon us.
Jer 6:27 "I have made you a tester of metals among my people, that you may know and test their ways.
Jer 6:28 They are all stubbornly rebellious, going about with slanders; they are bronze and iron; all of them act
corruptly.
Jer 6:29 The bellows blow fiercely; the lead is consumed by the fire; in vain the refining goes on, for the wicked
are not removed.
Jer 6:30 Rejected silver they are called, for the LORD has rejected them."
Jer 7:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD:
Jer 7:2 "Stand in the gate of the LORD's house, and proclaim there this word, and say, Hear the word of the
LORD, all you men of Judah who enter these gates to worship the LORD.
Jer 7:3 Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Amend your ways and your deeds, and I will let you
dwell in this place.
Jer 7:4 Do not trust in these deceptive words: 'This is the temple of the LORD, the temple of the LORD, the
temple of the LORD.'
Jer 7:5 "For if you truly amend your ways and your deeds, if you truly execute justice one with another,
Jer 7:6 if you do not oppress the sojourner, the fatherless, or the widow, or shed innocent blood in this place,
and if you do not go after other gods to your own harm,
Jer 7:7 then I will let you dwell in this place, in the land that I gave of old to your fathers forever.
Jer 7:8 "Behold, you trust in deceptive words to no avail.Jer 7:9 Will you steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely, make offerings to Baal, and go after other gods
that you have not known,
Jer 7:10 and then come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say, 'We are
delivered!'- only to go on doing all these abominations?
Jer 7:11 Has this house, which is called by my name, become a den of robbers in your eyes? Behold, I myself
have seen it, declares the LORD.
Jer 7:12 Go now to my place that was in Shiloh, where I made my name dwell at first, and see what I did to it
because of the evil of my people Israel.
Jer 7:13 And now, because you have done all these things, declares the LORD, and when I spoke to you
persistently you did not listen, and when I called you, you did not answer,
Jer 7:14 therefore I will do to the house that is called by my name, and in which you trust, and to the place that I
gave to you and to your fathers, as I did to Shiloh.
Jer 7:15 And I will cast you out of my sight, as I cast out all your kinsmen, all the offspring of Ephraim.
Jer 7:16 "As for you, do not pray for this people, or lift up a cry or prayer for them, and do not intercede with me,
for I will not hear you.
Jer 7:17 Do you not see what they are doing in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem?
Jer 7:18 The children gather wood, the fathers kindle fire, and the women knead dough, to make cakes for the
queen of heaven. And they pour out drink offerings to other gods, to provoke me to anger.
Jer 7:19 Is it I whom they provoke? declares the LORD. Is it not themselves, to their own shame?
Jer 7:20 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: behold, my anger and my wrath will be poured out on this place,
upon man and beast, upon the trees of the field and the fruit of the ground; it will burn and not be quenched."
Jer 7:21 Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: "Add your burnt offerings to your sacrifices, and eat
the flesh.
Jer 7:22 For in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, I did not speak to your fathers or command
them concerning burnt offerings and sacrifices.
Jer 7:23 But this command I gave them: 'Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and you shall be my people.
And walk in all the way that I command you, that it may be well with you.'
Jer 7:24 But they did not obey or incline their ear, but walked in their own counsels and the stubbornness of
their evil hearts, and went backward and not forward.
Jer 7:25 From the day that your fathers came out of the land of Egypt to this day, I have persistently sent all my
servants the prophets to them, day after day.
Jer 7:26 Yet they did not listen to me or incline their ear, but stiffened their neck. They did worse than their
fathers.
Jer 7:27 "So you shall speak all these words to them, but they will not listen to you. You shall call to them, but
they will not answer you.
Jer 7:28 And you shall say to them, 'This is the nation that did not obey the voice of the LORD their God, and
did not accept discipline; truth has perished; it is cut off from their lips.
Jer 7:29 "' Cut off your hair and cast it away; raise a lamentation on the bare heights, for the LORD has rejected
and forsaken the generation of his wrath.'
Jer 7:30 "For the sons of Judah have done evil in my sight, declares the LORD. They have set their detestable
things in the house that is called by my name, to defile it.
Jer 7:31 And they have built the high places of Topheth, which is in the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, to burn
their sons and their daughters in the fire, which I did not command, nor did it come into my mind.
Jer 7:32 Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when it will no more be called Topheth, or
the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, but the Valley of Slaughter; for they will bury in Topheth, because there is no
room elsewhere.
Jer 7:33 And the dead bodies of this people will be food for the birds of the air, and for the beasts of the earth,
and none will frighten them away.
Jer 7:34 And I will silence in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem the voice of mirth and the voice
of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, for the land shall become a waste.
Jer 8:1 "At that time, declares the LORD, the bones of the kings of Judah, the bones of its officials, the bones of
the priests, the bones of the prophets, and the bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem shall be brought out of their
tombs.
Jer 8:2 And they shall be spread before the sun and the moon and all the host of heaven, which they have loved
and served, which they have gone after, and which they have sought and worshiped. And they shall not be
gathered or buried. They shall be as dung on the surface of the ground.
Jer 8:3 Death shall be preferred to life by all the remnant that remains of this evil family in all the places where I
have driven them, declares the LORD of hosts.
Jer 8:4 "You shall say to them, Thus says the LORD: When men fall, do they not rise again? If one turns away,does he not return?
Jer 8:5 Why then has this people turned away in perpetual backsliding? They hold fast to deceit; they refuse to
return.
Jer 8:6 I have paid attention and listened, but they have not spoken rightly; no man relents of his evil, saying,
'What have I done?' Everyone turns to his own course, like a horse plunging headlong into battle.
Jer 8:7 Even the stork in the heavens knows her times, and the turtledove, swallow, and crane keep the time of
their coming, but my people know not the rules of the LORD.
Jer 8:8 "How can you say, 'We are wise, and the law of the LORD is with us'? But behold, the lying pen of the
scribes has made it into a lie.
Jer 8:9 The wise men shall be put to shame; they shall be dismayed and taken; behold, they have rejected the
word of the LORD, so what wisdom is in them?
Jer 8:10 Therefore I will give their wives to others and their fields to conquerors, because from the least to the
greatest everyone is greedy for unjust gain; from prophet to priest, everyone deals falsely.
Jer 8:11 They have healed the wound of my people lightly, saying, 'Peace, peace,' when there is no peace.
Jer 8:12 Were they ashamed when they committed abomination? No, they were not at all ashamed; they did not
know how to blush. Therefore they shall fall among the fallen; when I punish them, they shall be overthrown,
says the LORD.
Jer 8:13 When I would gather them, declares the LORD, there are no grapes on the vine, nor figs on the fig tree;
even the leaves are withered, and what I gave them has passed away from them."
Jer 8:14 Why do we sit still? Gather together; let us go into the fortified cities and perish there, for the LORD our
God has doomed us to perish and has given us poisoned water to drink, because we have sinned against the
LORD.
Jer 8:15 We looked for peace, but no good came; for a time of healing, but behold, terror.
Jer 8:16 "The snorting of their horses is heard from Dan; at the sound of the neighing of their stallions the whole
land quakes. They come and devour the land and all that fills it, the city and those who dwell in it.
Jer 8:17 For behold, I am sending among you serpents, adders that cannot be charmed, and they shall bite
you," declares the LORD.
Jer 8:18 My joy is gone; grief is upon me; my heart is sick within me.
Jer 8:19 Behold, the cry of the daughter of my people from the length and breadth of the land: "Is the LORD not
in Zion? Is her King not in her?" "Why have they provoked me to anger with their carved images and with their
foreign idols?"
Jer 8:20 "The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved."
Jer 8:21 For the wound of the daughter of my people is my heart wounded; I mourn, and dismay has taken hold
on me.
Jer 8:22 Is there no balm in Gilead? Is there no physician there? Why then has the health of the daughter of my
people not been restored?
Jer 9:1 Oh that my head were waters, and my eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for the
slain of the daughter of my people!
Jer 9:2 Oh that I had in the desert a travelers' lodging place, that I might leave my people and go away from
them! For they are all adulterers, a company of treacherous men.
Jer 9:3 They bend their tongue like a bow; falsehood and not truth has grown strong in the land; for they
proceed from evil to evil, and they do not know me, declares the LORD.
Jer 9:4 Let everyone beware of his neighbor, and put no trust in any brother, for every brother is a deceiver, and
every neighbor goes about as a slanderer.
Jer 9:5 Everyone deceives his neighbor, and no one speaks the truth; they have taught their tongue to speak
lies; they weary themselves committing iniquity.
Jer 9:6 Heaping oppression upon oppression, and deceit upon deceit, they refuse to know me, declares the
LORD.
Jer 9:7 Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts: "Behold, I will refine them and test them, for what else can I do,
because of my people?
Jer 9:8 Their tongue is a deadly arrow; it speaks deceitfully; with his mouth each speaks peace to his neighbor,
but in his heart he plans an ambush for him.
Jer 9:9 Shall I not punish them for these things? declares the LORD, and shall I not avenge myself on a nation
such as this?
Jer 9:10 "I will take up weeping and wailing for the mountains, and a lamentation for the pastures of the
wilderness, because they are laid waste so that no one passes through, and the lowing of cattle is not heard;
both the birds of the air and the beasts have fled and are gone.
Jer 9:11 I will make Jerusalem a heap of ruins, a lair of jackals, and I will make the cities of Judah a desolation,
without inhabitant."Jer 9:12 Who is the man so wise that he can understand this? To whom has the mouth of the LORD spoken,
that he may declare it? Why is the land ruined and laid waste like a wilderness, so that no one passes through?
Jer 9:13 And the LORD says: "Because they have forsaken my law that I set before them, and have not obeyed
my voice or walked in accord with it,
Jer 9:14 but have stubbornly followed their own hearts and have gone after the Baals, as their fathers taught
them.
Jer 9:15 Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will feed this people with bitter
food, and give them poisonous water to drink.
Jer 9:16 I will scatter them among the nations whom neither they nor their fathers have known, and I will send
the sword after them, until I have consumed them."
Jer 9:17 Thus says the LORD of hosts: "Consider, and call for the mourning women to come; send for the
skillful women to come;
Jer 9:18 let them make haste and raise a wailing over us, that our eyes may run down with tears and our eyelids
flow with water.
Jer 9:19 For a sound of wailing is heard from Zion: 'How we are ruined! We are utterly shamed, because we
have left the land, because they have cast down our dwellings.'"
Jer 9:20 Hear, O women, the word of the LORD, and let your ear receive the word of his mouth; teach to your
daughters a lament, and each to her neighbor a dirge.
Jer 9:21 For death has come up into our windows; it has entered our palaces, cutting off the children from the
streets and the young men from the squares.
Jer 9:22 Speak, "Thus declares the LORD: 'The dead bodies of men shall fall like dung upon the open field, like
sheaves after the reaper, and none shall gather them.'"
Jer 9:23 Thus says the LORD: "Let not the wise man boast in his wisdom, let not the mighty man boast in his
might, let not the rich man boast in his riches,
Jer 9:24 but let him who boasts boast in this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the LORD who
practices steadfast love, justice, and righteousness in the earth. For in these things I delight, declares the
LORD."
Jer 9:25 "Behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will punish all those who are circumcised
merely in the fleshJer 9:26 Egypt, Judah, Edom, the sons of Ammon, Moab, and all who dwell in the desert who cut the corners of
their hair, for all these nations are uncircumcised, and all the house of Israel is uncircumcised in heart."
Jer 10:1 Hear the word that the LORD speaks to you, O house of Israel.
Jer 10:2 Thus says the LORD: "Learn not the way of the nations, nor be dismayed at the signs of the heavens
because the nations are dismayed at them,
Jer 10:3 for the customs of the peoples are vanity. A tree from the forest is cut down and worked with an axe by
the hands of a craftsman.
Jer 10:4 They decorate it with silver and gold; they fasten it with hammer and nails so that it cannot move.
Jer 10:5 Their idols are like scarecrows in a cucumber field, and they cannot speak; they have to be carried, for
they cannot walk. Do not be afraid of them, for they cannot do evil, neither is it in them to do good."
Jer 10:6 There is none like you, O LORD; you are great, and your name is great in might.
Jer 10:7 Who would not fear you, O King of the nations? For this is your due; for among all the wise ones of the
nations and in all their kingdoms there is none like you.
Jer 10:8 They are both stupid and foolish; the instruction of idols is but wood!
Jer 10:9 Beaten silver is brought from Tarshish, and gold from Uphaz. They are the work of the craftsman and
of the hands of the goldsmith; their clothing is violet and purple; they are all the work of skilled men.
Jer 10:10 But the LORD is the true God; he is the living God and the everlasting King. At his wrath the earth
quakes, and the nations cannot endure his indignation.
Jer 10:11 Thus shall you say to them: "The gods who did not make the heavens and the earth shall perish from
the earth and from under the heavens."
Jer 10:12 It is he who made the earth by his power, who established the world by his wisdom, and by his
understanding stretched out the heavens.
Jer 10:13 When he utters his voice, there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and he makes the mist rise from
the ends of the earth. He makes lightning for the rain, and he brings forth the wind from his storehouses.
Jer 10:14 Every man is stupid and without knowledge; every goldsmith is put to shame by his idols, for his
images are false, and there is no breath in them.
Jer 10:15 They are worthless, a work of delusion; at the time of their punishment they shall perish.
Jer 10:16 Not like these is he who is the portion of Jacob, for he is the one who formed all things, and Israel is
the tribe of his inheritance; the LORD of hosts is his name.
Jer 10:17 Gather up your bundle from the ground, O you who dwell under siege!Jer 10:18 For thus says the LORD: "Behold, I am slinging out the inhabitants of the land at this time, and I will
bring distress on them, that they may feel it."
Jer 10:19 Woe is me because of my hurt! My wound is grievous. But I said, "Truly this is an affliction, and I must
bear it."
Jer 10:20 My tent is destroyed, and all my cords are broken; my children have gone from me, and they are not;
there is no one to spread my tent again and to set up my curtains.
Jer 10:21 For the shepherds are stupid and do not inquire of the LORD; therefore they have not prospered, and
all their flock is scattered.
Jer 10:22 A voice, a rumor! Behold, it comes!- a great commotion out of the north country to make the cities of
Judah a desolation, a lair of jackals.
Jer 10:23 I know, O LORD, that the way of man is not in himself, that it is not in man who walks to direct his
steps.
Jer 10:24 Correct me, O LORD, but in justice; not in your anger, lest you bring me to nothing.
Jer 10:25 Pour out your wrath on the nations that know you not, and on the peoples that call not on your name,
for they have devoured Jacob; they have devoured him and consumed him, and have laid waste his habitation.
Jer 11:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD:
Jer 11:2 "Hear the words of this covenant, and speak to the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Jer 11:3 You shall say to them, Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Cursed be the man who does not hear
the words of this covenant
Jer 11:4 that I commanded your fathers when I brought them out of the land of Egypt, from the iron furnace,
saying, Listen to my voice, and do all that I command you. So shall you be my people, and I will be your God,
Jer 11:5 that I may confirm the oath that I swore to your fathers, to give them a land flowing with milk and honey,
as at this day." Then I answered, "So be it, LORD."
Jer 11:6 And the LORD said to me, "Proclaim all these words in the cities of Judah and in the streets of
Jerusalem: Hear the words of this covenant and do them.
Jer 11:7 For I solemnly warned your fathers when I brought them up out of the land of Egypt, warning them
persistently, even to this day, saying, Obey my voice.
Jer 11:8 Yet they did not obey or incline their ear, but everyone walked in the stubbornness of his evil heart.
Therefore I brought upon them all the words of this covenant, which I commanded them to do, but they did not."
Jer 11:9 Again the LORD said to me, "A conspiracy exists among the men of Judah and the inhabitants of
Jerusalem.
Jer 11:10 They have turned back to the iniquities of their forefathers, who refused to hear my words. They have
gone after other gods to serve them. The house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken my covenant that
I made with their fathers.
Jer 11:11 Therefore, thus says the LORD, behold, I am bringing disaster upon them that they cannot escape.
Though they cry to me, I will not listen to them.
Jer 11:12 Then the cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem will go and cry to the gods to whom they
make offerings, but they cannot save them in the time of their trouble.
Jer 11:13 For your gods have become as many as your cities, O Judah, and as many as the streets of
Jerusalem are the altars you have set up to shame, altars to make offerings to Baal.
Jer 11:14 "Therefore do not pray for this people, or lift up a cry or prayer on their behalf, for I will not listen when
they call to me in the time of their trouble.
Jer 11:15 What right has my beloved in my house, when she has done many vile deeds? Can even sacrificial
flesh avert your doom? Can you then exult?
Jer 11:16 The LORD once called you 'a green olive tree, beautiful with good fruit.' But with the roar of a great
tempest he will set fire to it, and its branches will be consumed.
Jer 11:17 The LORD of hosts, who planted you, has decreed disaster against you, because of the evil that the
house of Israel and the house of Judah have done, provoking me to anger by making offerings to Baal."
Jer 11:18 The LORD made it known to me and I knew; then you showed me their deeds.
Jer 11:19 But I was like a gentle lamb led to the slaughter. I did not know it was against me they devised
schemes, saying, "Let us destroy the tree with its fruit, let us cut him off from the land of the living, that his name
be remembered no more."
Jer 11:20 But, O LORD of hosts, who judges righteously, who tests the heart and the mind, let me see your
vengeance upon them, for to you have I committed my cause.
Jer 11:21 Therefore thus says the LORD concerning the men of Anathoth, who seek your life, and say, "Do not
prophesy in the name of the LORD, or you will die by our hand"-
Jer 11:22 therefore thus says the LORD of hosts: "Behold, I will punish them. The young men shall die by the
sword, their sons and their daughters shall die by famine,
Jer 11:23 and none of them shall be left. For I will bring disaster upon the men of Anathoth, the year of theirpunishment."
Jer 12:1 Righteous are you, O LORD, when I complain to you; yet I would plead my case before you. Why does
the way of the wicked prosper? Why do all who are treacherous thrive?
Jer 12:2 You plant them, and they take root; they grow and produce fruit; you are near in their mouth and far
from their heart.
Jer 12:3 But you, O LORD, know me; you see me, and test my heart toward you. Pull them out like sheep for
the slaughter, and set them apart for the day of slaughter.
Jer 12:4 How long will the land mourn and the grass of every field wither? For the evil of those who dwell in it
the beasts and the birds are swept away, because they said, "He will not see our latter end."
Jer 12:5 "If you have raced with men on foot, and they have wearied you, how will you compete with horses?
And if in a safe land you are so trusting, what will you do in the thicket of the Jordan?
Jer 12:6 For even your brothers and the house of your father, even they have dealt treacherously with you; they
are in full cry after you; do not believe them, though they speak friendly words to you."
Jer 12:7 "I have forsaken my house; I have abandoned my heritage; I have given the beloved of my soul into the
hands of her enemies.
Jer 12:8 My heritage has become to me like a lion in the forest; she has lifted up her voice against me; therefore
I hate her.
Jer 12:9 Is my heritage to me like a hyena's lair? Are the birds of prey against her all around? Go, assemble all
the wild beasts; bring them to devour.
Jer 12:10 Many shepherds have destroyed my vineyard; they have trampled down my portion; they have made
my pleasant portion a desolate wilderness.
Jer 12:11 They have made it a desolation; desolate, it mourns to me. The whole land is made desolate, but no
man lays it to heart.
Jer 12:12 Upon all the bare heights in the desert destroyers have come, for the sword of the LORD devours
from one end of the land to the other; no flesh has peace.
Jer 12:13 They have sown wheat and have reaped thorns; they have tired themselves out but profit nothing.
They shall be ashamed of their harvests because of the fierce anger of the LORD."
Jer 12:14 Thus says the LORD concerning all my evil neighbors who touch the heritage that I have given my
people Israel to inherit: "Behold, I will pluck them up from their land, and I will pluck up the house of Judah from
among them.
Jer 12:15 And after I have plucked them up, I will again have compassion on them, and I will bring them again
each to his heritage and each to his land.
Jer 12:16 And it shall come to pass, if they will diligently learn the ways of my people, to swear by my name, 'As
the LORD lives,' even as they taught my people to swear by Baal, then they shall be built up in the midst of my
people.
Jer 12:17 But if any nation will not listen, then I will utterly pluck it up and destroy it, declares the LORD."
Jer 13:1 Thus says the LORD to me, "Go and buy a linen loincloth and put it around your waist, and do not dip it
in water."
Jer 13:2 So I bought a loincloth according to the word of the LORD, and put it around my waist.
Jer 13:3 And the word of the LORD came to me a second time,
Jer 13:4 "Take the loincloth that you have bought, which is around your waist, and arise, go to the Euphrates
and hide it there in a cleft of the rock."
Jer 13:5 So I went and hid it by the Euphrates, as the LORD commanded me.
Jer 13:6 And after many days the LORD said to me, "Arise, go to the Euphrates, and take from there the
loincloth that I commanded you to hide there."
Jer 13:7 Then I went to the Euphrates, and dug, and I took the loincloth from the place where I had hidden it.
And behold, the loincloth was spoiled; it was good for nothing.
Jer 13:8 Then the word of the LORD came to me:
Jer 13:9 "Thus says the LORD: Even so will I spoil the pride of Judah and the great pride of Jerusalem.
Jer 13:10 This evil people, who refuse to hear my words, who stubbornly follow their own heart and have gone
after other gods to serve them and worship them, shall be like this loincloth, which is good for nothing.
Jer 13:11 For as the loincloth clings to the waist of a man, so I made the whole house of Israel and the whole
house of Judah cling to me, declares the LORD, that they might be for me a people, a name, a praise, and a
glory, but they would not listen.
Jer 13:12 "You shall speak to them this word: 'Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, "Every jar shall be filled
with wine."' And they will say to you, 'Do we not indeed know that every jar will be filled with wine?'
Jer 13:13 Then you shall say to them, 'Thus says the LORD: Behold, I will fill with drunkenness all the
inhabitants of this land: the kings who sit on David's throne, the priests, the prophets, and all the inhabitants of
Jerusalem.Jer 13:14 And I will dash them one against another, fathers and sons together, declares the LORD. I will not pity
or spare or have compassion, that I should not destroy them.'"
Jer 13:15 Hear and give ear; be not proud, for the LORD has spoken.
Jer 13:16 Give glory to the LORD your God before he brings darkness, before your feet stumble on the twilight
mountains, and while you look for light he turns it into gloom and makes it deep darkness.
Jer 13:17 But if you will not listen, my soul will weep in secret for your pride; my eyes will weep bitterly and run
down with tears, because the LORD's flock has been taken captive.
Jer 13:18 Say to the king and the queen mother: "Take a lowly seat, for your beautiful crown has come down
from your head."
Jer 13:19 The cities of the Negeb are shut up, with none to open them; all Judah is taken into exile, wholly taken
into exile.
Jer 13:20 "Lift up your eyes and see those who come from the north. Where is the flock that was given you, your
beautiful flock?
Jer 13:21 What will you say when they set as head over you those whom you yourself have taught to be friends
to you? Will not pangs take hold of you like those of a woman in labor?
Jer 13:22 And if you say in your heart, 'Why have these things come upon me?' it is for the greatness of your
iniquity that your skirts are lifted up and you suffer violence.
Jer 13:23 Can the Ethiopian change his skin or the leopard his spots? Then also you can do good who are
accustomed to do evil.
Jer 13:24 I will scatter you like chaff driven by the wind from the desert.
Jer 13:25 This is your lot, the portion I have measured out to you, declares the LORD, because you have
forgotten me and trusted in lies.
Jer 13:26 I myself will lift up your skirts over your face, and your shame will be seen.
Jer 13:27 I have seen your abominations, your adulteries and neighings, your lewd whorings, on the hills in the
field. Woe to you, O Jerusalem! How long will it be before you are made clean?"
Jer 14:1 The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah concerning the drought:
Jer 14:2 "Judah mourns and her gates languish; her people lament on the ground, and the cry of Jerusalem
goes up.
Jer 14:3 Her nobles send their servants for water; they come to the cisterns; they find no water; they return with
their vessels empty; they are ashamed and confounded and cover their heads.
Jer 14:4 Because of the ground that is dismayed, since there is no rain on the land, the farmers are ashamed;
they cover their heads.
Jer 14:5 Even the doe in the field forsakes her newborn fawn because there is no grass.
Jer 14:6 The wild donkeys stand on the bare heights; they pant for air like jackals; their eyes fail because there
is no vegetation.
Jer 14:7 "Though our iniquities testify against us, act, O LORD, for your name's sake; for our backslidings are
many; we have sinned against you.
Jer 14:8 O you hope of Israel, its savior in time of trouble, why should you be like a stranger in the land, like a
traveler who turns aside to tarry for a night?
Jer 14:9 Why should you be like a man confused, like a mighty warrior who cannot save? Yet you, O LORD, are
in the midst of us, and we are called by your name; do not leave us."
Jer 14:10 Thus says the LORD concerning this people: "They have loved to wander thus; they have not
restrained their feet; therefore the LORD does not accept them; now he will remember their iniquity and punish
their sins."
Jer 14:11 The LORD said to me: "Do not pray for the welfare of this people.
Jer 14:12 Though they fast, I will not hear their cry, and though they offer burnt offering and grain offering, I will
not accept them. But I will consume them by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence."
Jer 14:13 Then I said: "Ah, Lord GOD, behold, the prophets say to them, 'You shall not see the sword, nor shall
you have famine, but I will give you assured peace in this place.'"
Jer 14:14 And the LORD said to me: "The prophets are prophesying lies in my name. I did not send them, nor
did I command them or speak to them. They are prophesying to you a lying vision, worthless divination, and the
deceit of their own minds.
Jer 14:15 Therefore thus says the LORD concerning the prophets who prophesy in my name although I did not
send them, and who say, 'Sword and famine shall not come upon this land': By sword and famine those prophets
shall be consumed.
Jer 14:16 And the people to whom they prophesy shall be cast out in the streets of Jerusalem, victims of famine
and sword, with none to bury them- them, their wives, their sons, and their daughters. For I will pour out their evil
upon them.
Jer 14:17 "You shall say to them this word: 'Let my eyes run down with tears night and day, and let them notcease, for the virgin daughter of my people is shattered with a great wound, with a very grievous blow.
Jer 14:18 If I go out into the field, behold, those pierced by the sword! And if I enter the city, behold, the
diseases of famine! For both prophet and priest ply their trade through the land and have no knowledge.'"
Jer 14:19 Have you utterly rejected Judah? Does your soul loathe Zion? Why have you struck us down so that
there is no healing for us? We looked for peace, but no good came; for a time of healing, but behold, terror.
Jer 14:20 We acknowledge our wickedness, O LORD, and the iniquity of our fathers, for we have sinned against
you.
Jer 14:21 Do not spurn us, for your name's sake; do not dishonor your glorious throne; remember and do not
break your covenant with us.
Jer 14:22 Are there any among the false gods of the nations that can bring rain? Or can the heavens give
showers? Are you not he, O LORD our God? We set our hope on you, for you do all these things.
Jer 15:1 Then the LORD said to me, "Though Moses and Samuel stood before me, yet my heart would not turn
toward this people. Send them out of my sight, and let them go!
Jer 15:2 And when they ask you, 'Where shall we go?' you shall say to them, 'Thus says the LORD: "' Those
who are for pestilence, to pestilence, and those who are for the sword, to the sword; those who are for famine, to
famine, and those who are for captivity, to captivity.'
Jer 15:3 I will appoint over them four kinds of destroyers, declares the LORD: the sword to kill, the dogs to tear,
and the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth to devour and destroy.
Jer 15:4 And I will make them a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth because of what Manasseh the son of
Hezekiah, king of Judah, did in Jerusalem.
Jer 15:5 "Who will have pity on you, O Jerusalem, or who will grieve for you? Who will turn aside to ask about
your welfare?
Jer 15:6 You have rejected me, declares the LORD; you keep going backward, so I have stretched out my hand
against you and destroyed you- I am weary of relenting.
Jer 15:7 I have winnowed them with a winnowing fork in the gates of the land; I have bereaved them; I have
destroyed my people; they did not turn from their ways.
Jer 15:8 I have made their widows more in number than the sand of the seas; I have brought against the
mothers of young men a destroyer at noonday; I have made anguish and terror fall upon them suddenly.
Jer 15:9 She who bore seven has grown feeble; she has fainted away; her sun went down while it was yet day;
she has been shamed and disgraced. And the rest of them I will give to the sword before their enemies, declares
the LORD."
Jer 15:10 Woe is me, my mother, that you bore me, a man of strife and contention to the whole land! I have not
lent, nor have I borrowed, yet all of them curse me.
Jer 15:11 The LORD said, "Have I not set you free for their good? Have I not pleaded for you before the enemy
in the time of trouble and in the time of distress?
Jer 15:12 Can one break iron, iron from the north, and bronze?
Jer 15:13 "Your wealth and your treasures I will give as spoil, without price, for all your sins, throughout all your
territory.
Jer 15:14 I will make you serve your enemies in a land that you do not know, for in my anger a fire is kindled
that shall burn forever."
Jer 15:15 O LORD, you know; remember me and visit me,, and take vengeance for me on my persecutors. In
your forbearance take me not away; know that for your sake I bear reproach.
Jer 15:16 Your words were found, and I ate them, and your words became to me a joy and the delight of my
heart, for I am called by your name, O LORD, God of hosts.
Jer 15:17 I did not sit in the company of revelers, nor did I rejoice; I sat alone, because your hand was upon me,
for you had filled me with indignation.
Jer 15:18 Why is my pain unceasing, my wound incurable, refusing to be healed? Will you be to me like a
deceitful brook, like waters that fail?
Jer 15:19 Therefore thus says the LORD: "If you return, I will restore you, and you shall stand before me. If you
utter what is precious, and not what is worthless, you shall be as my mouth. They shall turn to you, but you shall
not turn to them.
Jer 15:20 And I will make you to this people a fortified wall of bronze; they will fight against you, but they shall
not prevail over you, for I am with you to save you and deliver you, declares the LORD.
Jer 15:21 I will deliver you out of the hand of the wicked, and redeem you from the grasp of the ruthless."
Jer 16:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Jer 16:2 "You shall not take a wife, nor shall you have sons or daughters in this place.
Jer 16:3 For thus says the LORD concerning the sons and daughters who are born in this place, and concerning
the mothers who bore them and the fathers who fathered them in this land:
Jer 16:4 They shall die of deadly diseases. They shall not be lamented, nor shall they be buried. They shall beas dung on the surface of the ground. They shall perish by the sword and by famine, and their dead bodies shall
be food for the birds of the air and for the beasts of the earth.
Jer 16:5 "For thus says the LORD: Do not enter the house of mourning, or go to lament or grieve for them, for I
have taken away my peace from this people, my steadfast love and mercy, declares the LORD.
Jer 16:6 Both great and small shall die in this land. They shall not be buried, and no one shall lament for them or
cut himself or make himself bald for them.
Jer 16:7 No one shall break bread for the mourner, to comfort him for the dead, nor shall anyone give him the
cup of consolation to drink for his father or his mother.
Jer 16:8 You shall not go into the house of feasting to sit with them, to eat and drink.
Jer 16:9 For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will silence in this place, before your eyes
and in your days, the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the
bride.
Jer 16:10 "And when you tell this people all these words, and they say to you, 'Why has the LORD pronounced
all this great evil against us? What is our iniquity? What is the sin that we have committed against the LORD our
God?'
Jer 16:11 then you shall say to them: 'Because your fathers have forsaken me, declares the LORD, and have
gone after other gods and have served and worshiped them, and have forsaken me and have not kept my law,
Jer 16:12 and because you have done worse than your fathers, for behold, every one of you follows his
stubborn, evil will, refusing to listen to me.
Jer 16:13 Therefore I will hurl you out of this land into a land that neither you nor your fathers have known, and
there you shall serve other gods day and night, for I will show you no favor.'
Jer 16:14 "Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when it shall no longer be said, 'As the
LORD lives who brought up the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt,'
Jer 16:15 but 'As the LORD lives who brought up the people of Israel out of the north country and out of all the
countries where he had driven them.' For I will bring them back to their own land that I gave to their fathers.
Jer 16:16 "Behold, I am sending for many fishers, declares the LORD, and they shall catch them. And afterward
I will send for many hunters, and they shall hunt them from every mountain and every hill, and out of the clefts of
the rocks.
Jer 16:17 For my eyes are on all their ways. They are not hidden from me, nor is their iniquity concealed from
my eyes.
Jer 16:18 But first I will doubly repay their iniquity and their sin, because they have polluted my land with the
carcasses of their detestable idols, and have filled my inheritance with their abominations."
Jer 16:19 O LORD, my strength and my stronghold, my refuge in the day of trouble, to you shall the nations
come from the ends of the earth and say: "Our fathers have inherited nothing but lies, worthless things in which
there is no profit.
Jer 16:20 Can man make for himself gods? Such are not gods!"
Jer 16:21 "Therefore, behold, I will make them know, this once I will make them know my power and my might,
and they shall know that my name is the LORD."
Jer 17:1 "The sin of Judah is written with a pen of iron; with a point of diamond it is engraved on the tablet of
their heart, and on the horns of their altars,
Jer 17:2 while their children remember their altars and their Asherim, beside every green tree and on the high
hills,
Jer 17:3 on the mountains in the open country. Your wealth and all your treasures I will give for spoil as the
price of your high places for sin throughout all your territory.
Jer 17:4 You shall loosen your hand from your heritage that I gave to you, and I will make you serve your
enemies in a land that you do not know, for in my anger a fire is kindled that shall burn forever."
Jer 17:5 Thus says the LORD: "Cursed is the man who trusts in man and makes flesh his strength, whose heart
turns away from the LORD.
Jer 17:6 He is like a shrub in the desert, and shall not see any good come. He shall dwell in the parched places
of the wilderness, in an uninhabited salt land.
Jer 17:7 "Blessed is the man who trusts in the LORD, whose trust is the LORD.
Jer 17:8 He is like a tree planted by water, that sends out its roots by the stream, and does not fear when heat
comes, for its leaves remain green, and is not anxious in the year of drought, for it does not cease to bear fruit."
Jer 17:9 The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately sick; who can understand it?
Jer 17:10 "I the LORD search the heart and test the mind, to give every man according to his ways, according to
the fruit of his deeds."
Jer 17:11 Like the partridge that gathers a brood that she did not hatch, so is he who gets riches but not by
justice; in the midst of his days they will leave him, and at his end he will be a fool.
Jer 17:12 A glorious throne set on high from the beginning is the place of our sanctuary.Jer 17:13 O LORD, the hope of Israel, all who forsake you shall be put to shame; those who turn away from you
shall be written in the earth, for they have forsaken the LORD, the fountain of living water.
Jer 17:14 Heal me, O LORD, and I shall be healed; save me, and I shall be saved, for you are my praise.
Jer 17:15 Behold, they say to me, "Where is the word of the LORD? Let it come!"
Jer 17:16 I have not run away from being your shepherd, nor have I desired the day of sickness. You know what
came out of my lips; it was before your face.
Jer 17:17 Be not a terror to me; you are my refuge in the day of disaster.
Jer 17:18 Let those be put to shame who persecute me, but let me not be put to shame; let them be dismayed,
but let me not be dismayed; bring upon them the day of disaster; destroy them with double destruction!
Jer 17:19 Thus said the LORD to me: "Go and stand in the People's Gate, by which the kings of Judah enter
and by which they go out, and in all the gates of Jerusalem,
Jer 17:20 and say: 'Hear the word of the LORD, you kings of Judah, and all Judah, and all the inhabitants of
Jerusalem, who enter by these gates.
Jer 17:21 Thus says the LORD: Take care for the sake of your lives, and do not bear a burden on the Sabbath
day or bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem.
Jer 17:22 And do not carry a burden out of your houses on the Sabbath or do any work, but keep the Sabbath
day holy, as I commanded your fathers.
Jer 17:23 Yet they did not listen or incline their ear, but stiffened their neck, that they might not hear and receive
instruction.
Jer 17:24 "'But if you listen to me, declares the LORD, and bring in no burden by the gates of this city on the
Sabbath day, but keep the Sabbath day holy and do no work on it,
Jer 17:25 then there shall enter by the gates of this city kings and princes who sit on the throne of David, riding
in chariots and on horses, they and their officials, the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And this
city shall be inhabited forever.
Jer 17:26 And people shall come from the cities of Judah and the places around Jerusalem, from the land of
Benjamin, from the Shephelah, from the hill country, and from the Negeb, bringing burnt offerings and sacrifices,
grain offerings and frankincense, and bringing thank offerings to the house of the LORD.
Jer 17:27 But if you do not listen to me, to keep the Sabbath day holy, and not to bear a burden and enter by the
gates of Jerusalem on the Sabbath day, then I will kindle a fire in its gates, and it shall devour the palaces of
Jerusalem and shall not be quenched.'"
Jer 18:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD:
Jer 18:2 "Arise, and go down to the potter's house, and there I will let you hear my words."
Jer 18:3 So I went down to the potter's house, and there he was working at his wheel.
Jer 18:4 And the vessel he was making of clay was spoiled in the potter's hand, and he reworked it into another
vessel, as it seemed good to the potter to do.
Jer 18:5 Then the word of the LORD came to me:
Jer 18:6 "O house of Israel, can I not do with you as this potter has done? declares the LORD. Behold, like the
clay in the potter's hand, so are you in my hand, O house of Israel.
Jer 18:7 If at any time I declare concerning a nation or a kingdom, that I will pluck up and break down and
destroy it,
Jer 18:8 and if that nation, concerning which I have spoken, turns from its evil, I will relent of the disaster that I
intended to do to it.
Jer 18:9 And if at any time I declare concerning a nation or a kingdom that I will build and plant it,
Jer 18:10 and if it does evil in my sight, not listening to my voice, then I will relent of the good that I had intended
to do to it.
Jer 18:11 Now, therefore, say to the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem: 'Thus says the LORD,
behold, I am shaping disaster against you and devising a plan against you. Return, every one from his evil way,
and amend your ways and your deeds.'
Jer 18:12 "But they say, 'That is in vain! We will follow our own plans, and will every one act according to the
stubbornness of his evil heart.'
Jer 18:13 "Therefore thus says the LORD: Ask among the nations, Who has heard the like of this? The virgin
Israel has done a very horrible thing.
Jer 18:14 Does the snow of Lebanon leave the crags of Sirion? Do the mountain waters run dry, the cold flowing
streams?
Jer 18:15 But my people have forgotten me; they make offerings to false gods; they made them stumble in their
ways, in the ancient roads, and to walk into side roads, not the highway,
Jer 18:16 making their land a horror, a thing to be hissed at forever. Everyone who passes by it is horrified and
shakes his head.
Jer 18:17 Like the east wind I will scatter them before the enemy. I will show them my back, not my face, in theday of their calamity."
Jer 18:18 Then they said, "Come, let us make plots against Jeremiah, for the law shall not perish from the
priest, nor counsel from the wise, nor the word from the prophet. Come, let us strike him with the tongue, and let
us not pay attention to any of his words."
Jer 18:19 Hear me, O LORD, and listen to the voice of my adversaries.
Jer 18:20 Should good be repaid with evil? Yet they have dug a pit for my life. Remember how I stood before
you to speak good for them, to turn away your wrath from them.
Jer 18:21 Therefore deliver up their children to famine; give them over to the power of the sword; let their wives
become childless and widowed. May their men meet death by pestilence, their youths be struck down by the
sword in battle.
Jer 18:22 May a cry be heard from their houses, when you bring the plunderer suddenly upon them! For they
have dug a pit to take me and laid snares for my feet.
Jer 18:23 Yet you, O LORD, know all their plotting to kill me. Forgive not their iniquity, nor blot out their sin from
your sight. Let them be overthrown before you; deal with them in the time of your anger.
Jer 19:1 Thus says the LORD, "Go, buy a potter's earthenware flask, and take some of the elders of the people
and some of the elders of the priests,
Jer 19:2 and go out to the Valley of the Son of Hinnom at the entry of the Potsherd Gate, and proclaim there the
words that I tell you.
Jer 19:3 You shall say, 'Hear the word of the LORD, O kings of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem. Thus says
the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I am bringing such disaster upon this place that the ears of
everyone who hears of it will tingle.
Jer 19:4 Because the people have forsaken me and have profaned this place by making offerings in it to other
gods whom neither they nor their fathers nor the kings of Judah have known; and because they have filled this
place with the blood of innocents,
Jer 19:5 and have built the high places of Baal to burn their sons in the fire as burnt offerings to Baal, which I did
not command or decree, nor did it come into my mindJer 19:6 therefore, behold, days are coming, declares the LORD, when this place shall no more be called
Topheth, or the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, but the Valley of Slaughter.
Jer 19:7 And in this place I will make void the plans of Judah and Jerusalem, and will cause their people to fall
by the sword before their enemies, and by the hand of those who seek their life. I will give their dead bodies for
food to the birds of the air and to the beasts of the earth.
Jer 19:8 And I will make this city a horror, a thing to be hissed at. Everyone who passes by it will be horrified
and will hiss because of all its wounds.
Jer 19:9 And I will make them eat the flesh of their sons and their daughters, and everyone shall eat the flesh of
his neighbor in the siege and in the distress, with which their enemies and those who seek their life afflict them.'
Jer 19:10 "Then you shall break the flask in the sight of the men who go with you,
Jer 19:11 and shall say to them, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts: So will I break this people and this city, as one
breaks a potter's vessel, so that it can never be mended. Men shall bury in Topheth because there will be no
place else to bury.
Jer 19:12 Thus will I do to this place, declares the LORD, and to its inhabitants, making this city like Topheth.
Jer 19:13 The houses of Jerusalem and the houses of the kings of Judah- all the houses on whose roofs
offerings have been offered to all the host of heaven, and drink offerings have been poured out to other godsshall be defiled like the place of Topheth.'"
Jer 19:14 Then Jeremiah came from Topheth, where the LORD had sent him to prophesy, and he stood in the
court of the LORD's house and said to all the people:
Jer 19:15 "Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, behold, I am bringing upon this city and upon all its
towns all the disaster that I have pronounced against it, because they have stiffened their neck, refusing to hear
my words."
Jer 20:1 Now Pashhur the priest, the son of Immer, who was chief officer in the house of the LORD, heard
Jeremiah prophesying these things.
Jer 20:2 Then Pashhur beat Jeremiah the prophet, and put him in the stocks that were in the upper Benjamin
Gate of the house of the LORD.
Jer 20:3 The next day, when Pashhur released Jeremiah from the stocks, Jeremiah said to him, "The LORD
does not call your name Pashhur, but Terror On Every Side.
Jer 20:4 For thus says the LORD: Behold, I will make you a terror to yourself and to all your friends. They shall
fall by the sword of their enemies while you look on. And I will give all Judah into the hand of the king of Babylon.
He shall carry them captive to Babylon, and shall strike them down with the sword.
Jer 20:5 Moreover, I will give all the wealth of the city, all its gains, all its prized belongings, and all the treasures
of the kings of Judah into the hand of their enemies, who shall plunder them and seize them and carry them toBabylon.
Jer 20:6 And you, Pashhur, and all who dwell in your house, shall go into captivity. To Babylon you shall go, and
there you shall die, and there you shall be buried, you and all your friends, to whom you have prophesied
falsely."
Jer 20:7 O LORD, you have deceived me, and I was deceived; you are stronger than I, and you have prevailed.
I have become a laughingstock all the day; everyone mocks me.
Jer 20:8 For whenever I speak, I cry out, I shout, "Violence and destruction!" For the word of the LORD has
become for me a reproach and derision all day long.
Jer 20:9 If I say, "I will not mention him, or speak any more in his name," there is in my heart as it were a
burning fire shut up in my bones, and I am weary with holding it in, and I cannot.
Jer 20:10 For I hear many whispering. Terror is on every side! "Denounce him! Let us denounce him!" say all
my close friends, watching for my fall. "Perhaps he will be deceived; then we can overcome him and take our
revenge on him."
Jer 20:11 But the LORD is with me as a dread warrior; therefore my persecutors will stumble; they will not
overcome me. They will be greatly shamed, for they will not succeed. Their eternal dishonor will never be
forgotten.
Jer 20:12 O LORD of hosts, who tests the righteous, who sees the heart and the mind, let me see your
vengeance upon them, for to you have I committed my cause.
Jer 20:13 Sing to the LORD; praise the LORD! For he has delivered the life of the needy from the hand of
evildoers.
Jer 20:14 Cursed be the day on which I was born! The day when my mother bore me, let it not be blessed!
Jer 20:15 Cursed be the man who brought the news to my father, "A son is born to you," making him very glad.
Jer 20:16 Let that man be like the cities that the LORD overthrew without pity; let him hear a cry in the morning
and an alarm at noon,
Jer 20:17 because he did not kill me in the womb; so my mother would have been my grave, and her womb
forever great.
Jer 20:18 Why did I come out from the womb to see toil and sorrow, and spend my days in shame?
Jer 21:1 This is the word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, when King Zedekiah sent to him Pashhur the
son of Malchiah and Zephaniah the priest, the son of Maaseiah, saying,
Jer 21:2 "Inquire of the LORD for us, for Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon is making war against us. Perhaps
the LORD will deal with us according to all his wonderful deeds and will make him withdraw from us."
Jer 21:3 Then Jeremiah said to them:
Jer 21:4 "Thus you shall say to Zedekiah, 'Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Behold, I will turn back the
weapons of war that are in your hands and with which you are fighting against the king of Babylon and against
the Chaldeans who are besieging you outside the walls. And I will bring them together into the midst of this city.
Jer 21:5 I myself will fight against you with outstretched hand and strong arm, in anger and in fury and in great
wrath.
Jer 21:6 And I will strike down the inhabitants of this city, both man and beast. They shall die of a great
pestilence.
Jer 21:7 Afterward, declares the LORD, I will give Zedekiah king of Judah and his servants and the people in
this city who survive the pestilence, sword, and famine into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and
into the hand of their enemies, into the hand of those who seek their lives. He shall strike them down with the
edge of the sword. He shall not pity them or spare them or have compassion.'
Jer 21:8 "And to this people you shall say: 'Thus says the LORD: Behold, I set before you the way of life and the
way of death.
Jer 21:9 He who stays in this city shall die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence, but he who goes out and
surrenders to the Chaldeans who are besieging you shall live and shall have his life as a prize of war.
Jer 21:10 For I have set my face against this city for harm and not for good, declares the LORD: it shall be given
into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire.'
Jer 21:11 "And to the house of the king of Judah say, 'Hear the word of the LORD,
Jer 21:12 O house of David! Thus says the LORD: "' Execute justice in the morning, and deliver from the hand
of the oppressor him who has been robbed, lest my wrath go forth like fire, and burn with none to quench it,
because of your evil deeds.'"
Jer 21:13 "Behold, I am against you, O inhabitant of the valley, O rock of the plain, declares the LORD; you who
say, 'Who shall come down against us, or who shall enter our habitations?'
Jer 21:14 I will punish you according to the fruit of your deeds, declares the LORD; I will kindle a fire in her
forest, and it shall devour all that is around her."
Jer 22:1 Thus says the LORD: "Go down to the house of the king of Judah and speak there this word,
Jer 22:2 and say, 'Hear the word of the LORD, O King of Judah, who sits on the throne of David, you, and yourservants, and your people who enter these gates.
Jer 22:3 Thus says the LORD: Do justice and righteousness, and deliver from the hand of the oppressor him
who has been robbed. And do no wrong or violence to the resident alien, the fatherless, and the widow, nor shed
innocent blood in this place.
Jer 22:4 For if you will indeed obey this word, then there shall enter the gates of this house kings who sit on the
throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, they and their servants and their people.
Jer 22:5 But if you will not obey these words, I swear by myself, declares the LORD, that this house shall
become a desolation.
Jer 22:6 For thus says the LORD concerning the house of the king of Judah: "' You are like Gilead to me, like
the summit of Lebanon, yet surely I will make you a desert, an uninhabited city.
Jer 22:7 I will prepare destroyers against you, each with his weapons, and they shall cut down your choicest
cedars and cast them into the fire.
Jer 22:8 "'And many nations will pass by this city, and every man will say to his neighbor, "Why has the LORD
dealt thus with this great city?"
Jer 22:9 And they will answer, "Because they have forsaken the covenant of the LORD their God and worshiped
other gods and served them."'"
Jer 22:10 Weep not for him who is dead, nor grieve for him, but weep bitterly for him who goes away, for he
shall return no more to see his native land.
Jer 22:11 For thus says the LORD concerning Shallum the son of Josiah, king of Judah, who reigned instead of
Josiah his father, and who went away from this place: "He shall return here no more,
Jer 22:12 but in the place where they have carried him captive, there shall he die, and he shall never see this
land again."
Jer 22:13 "Woe to him who builds his house by unrighteousness, and his upper rooms by injustice, who makes
his neighbor serve him for nothing and does not give him his wages,
Jer 22:14 who says, 'I will build myself a great house with spacious upper rooms,' who cuts out windows for it,
paneling it with cedar and painting it with vermilion.
Jer 22:15 Do you think you are a king because you compete in cedar? Did not your father eat and drink and do
justice and righteousness? Then it was well with him.
Jer 22:16 He judged the cause of the poor and needy; then it was well. Is not this to know me? declares the
LORD.
Jer 22:17 But you have eyes and heart only for your dishonest gain, for shedding innocent blood, and for
practicing oppression and violence."
Jer 22:18 Therefore thus says the LORD concerning Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah: "They shall not
lament for him, saying, 'Ah, my brother!' or 'Ah, sister!' They shall not lament for him, saying, 'Ah, lord!' or 'Ah, his
majesty!'
Jer 22:19 With the burial of a donkey he shall be buried, dragged and dumped beyond the gates of Jerusalem."
Jer 22:20 "Go up to Lebanon, and cry out, and lift up your voice in Bashan; cry out from Abarim, for all your
lovers are destroyed.
Jer 22:21 I spoke to you in your prosperity, but you said, 'I will not listen.' This has been your way from your
youth, that you have not obeyed my voice.
Jer 22:22 The wind shall shepherd all your shepherds, and your lovers shall go into captivity; then you will be
ashamed and confounded because of all your evil.
Jer 22:23 O inhabitant of Lebanon, nested among the cedars, how you will be pitied when pangs come upon
you, pain as of a woman in labor!"
Jer 22:24 "As I live, declares the LORD, though Coniah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, were the signet
ring on my right hand, yet I would tear you off
Jer 22:25 and give you into the hand of those who seek your life, into the hand of those of whom you are afraid,
even into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and into the hand of the Chaldeans.
Jer 22:26 I will hurl you and the mother who bore you into another country, where you were not born, and there
you shall die.
Jer 22:27 But to the land to which they will long to return, there they shall not return."
Jer 22:28 Is this man Coniah a despised, broken pot, a vessel no one cares for? Why are he and his children
hurled and cast into a land that they do not know?
Jer 22:29 O land, land, land, hear the word of the LORD!
Jer 22:30 Thus says the LORD: "Write this man down as childless, a man who shall not succeed in his days, for
none of his offspring shall succeed in sitting on the throne of David and ruling again in Judah."
Jer 23:1 "Woe to the shepherds who destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture!" declares the LORD.
Jer 23:2 Therefore thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, concerning the shepherds who care for my people:
"You have scattered my flock and have driven them away, and you have not attended to them. Behold, I willattend to you for your evil deeds, declares the LORD.
Jer 23:3 Then I will gather the remnant of my flock out of all the countries where I have driven them, and I will
bring them back to their fold, and they shall be fruitful and multiply.
Jer 23:4 I will set shepherds over them who will care for them, and they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed,
neither shall any be missing, declares the LORD.
Jer 23:5 "Behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will raise up for David a righteous Branch,
and he shall reign as king and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land.
Jer 23:6 In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And this is the name by which he will be
called: 'The LORD is our righteousness.'
Jer 23:7 "Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when they shall no longer say, 'As the
LORD lives who brought up the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt,'
Jer 23:8 but 'As the LORD lives who brought up and led the offspring of the house of Israel out of the north
country and out of all the countries where he had driven them.' Then they shall dwell in their own land."
Jer 23:9 Concerning the prophets: My heart is broken within me; all my bones shake; I am like a drunken man,
like a man overcome by wine, because of the LORD and because of his holy words.
Jer 23:10 For the land is full of adulterers; because of the curse the land mourns, and the pastures of the
wilderness are dried up. Their course is evil, and their might is not right.
Jer 23:11 "Both prophet and priest are ungodly; even in my house I have found their evil, declares the LORD.
Jer 23:12 Therefore their way shall be to them like slippery paths in the darkness, into which they shall be driven
and fall, for I will bring disaster upon them in the year of their punishment, declares the LORD.
Jer 23:13 In the prophets of Samaria I saw an unsavory thing: they prophesied by Baal and led my people Israel
astray.
Jer 23:14 But in the prophets of Jerusalem I have seen a horrible thing: they commit adultery and walk in lies;
they strengthen the hands of evildoers, so that no one turns from his evil; all of them have become like Sodom to
me, and its inhabitants like Gomorrah."
Jer 23:15 Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts concerning the prophets: "Behold, I will feed them with bitter
food and give them poisoned water to drink, for from the prophets of Jerusalem ungodliness has gone out into all
the land."
Jer 23:16 Thus says the LORD of hosts: "Do not listen to the words of the prophets who prophesy to you, filling
you with vain hopes. They speak visions of their own minds, not from the mouth of the LORD.
Jer 23:17 They say continually to those who despise the word of the LORD, 'It shall be well with you'; and to
everyone who stubbornly follows his own heart, they say, 'No disaster shall come upon you.'"
Jer 23:18 For who among them has stood in the council of the LORD to see and to hear his word, or who has
paid attention to his word and listened?
Jer 23:19 Behold, the storm of the LORD! Wrath has gone forth, a whirling tempest; it will burst upon the head
of the wicked.
Jer 23:20 The anger of the LORD will not turn back until he has executed and accomplished the intents of his
heart. In the latter days you will understand it clearly.
Jer 23:21 "I did not send the prophets, yet they ran; I did not speak to them, yet they prophesied.
Jer 23:22 But if they had stood in my council, then they would have proclaimed my words to my people, and
they would have turned them from their evil way, and from the evil of their deeds.
Jer 23:23 "Am I a God at hand, declares the LORD, and not a God afar off?
Jer 23:24 Can a man hide himself in secret places so that I cannot see him? declares the LORD. Do I not fill
heaven and earth? declares the LORD.
Jer 23:25 I have heard what the prophets have said who prophesy lies in my name, saying, 'I have dreamed, I
have dreamed!'
Jer 23:26 How long shall there be lies in the heart of the prophets who prophesy lies, and who prophesy the
deceit of their own heart,
Jer 23:27 who think to make my people forget my name by their dreams that they tell one another, even as their
fathers forgot my name for Baal?
Jer 23:28 Let the prophet who has a dream tell the dream, but let him who has my word speak my word
faithfully. What has straw in common with wheat? declares the LORD.
Jer 23:29 Is not my word like fire, declares the LORD, and like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces?
Jer 23:30 Therefore, behold, I am against the prophets, declares the LORD, who steal my words from one
another.
Jer 23:31 Behold, I am against the prophets, declares the LORD, who use their tongues and declare, 'declares
the LORD.'
Jer 23:32 Behold, I am against those who prophesy lying dreams, declares the LORD, and who tell them and
lead my people astray by their lies and their recklessness, when I did not send them or charge them. So they donot profit this people at all, declares the LORD.
Jer 23:33 "When one of this people, or a prophet or a priest asks you, 'What is the burden of the LORD?' you
shall say to them, 'You are the burden, and I will cast you off, declares the LORD.'
Jer 23:34 And as for the prophet, priest, or one of the people who says, 'The burden of the LORD,' I will punish
that man and his household.
Jer 23:35 Thus shall you say, every one to his neighbor and every one to his brother, 'What has the LORD
answered?' or 'What has the LORD spoken?'
Jer 23:36 But 'the burden of the LORD' you shall mention no more, for the burden is every man's own word, and
you pervert the words of the living God, the LORD of hosts, our God.
Jer 23:37 Thus you shall say to the prophet, 'What has the LORD answered you?' or 'What has the LORD
spoken?'
Jer 23:38 But if you say, 'The burden of the LORD,' thus says the LORD, 'Because you have said these words,
"The burden of the LORD," when I sent to you, saying, "You shall not say, 'The burden of the LORD,'"
Jer 23:39 therefore, behold, I will surely lift you up and cast you away from my presence, you and the city that I
gave to you and your fathers.
Jer 23:40 And I will bring upon you everlasting reproach and perpetual shame, which shall not be forgotten.'"
Jer 24:1 After Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had taken into exile from Jerusalem Jeconiah the son of
Jehoiakim, king of Judah, together with the officials of Judah, the craftsmen, and the metal workers, and had
brought them to Babylon, the LORD showed me this vision: behold, two baskets of figs placed before the temple
of the LORD.
Jer 24:2 One basket had very good figs, like first-ripe figs, but the other basket had very bad figs, so bad that
they could not be eaten.
Jer 24:3 And the LORD said to me, "What do you see, Jeremiah?" I said, "Figs, the good figs very good, and the
bad figs very bad, so bad that they cannot be eaten."
Jer 24:4 Then the word of the LORD came to me:
Jer 24:5 "Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Like these good figs, so I will regard as good the exiles from
Judah, whom I have sent away from this place to the land of the Chaldeans.
Jer 24:6 I will set my eyes on them for good, and I will bring them back to this land. I will build them up, and not
tear them down; I will plant them, and not uproot them.
Jer 24:7 I will give them a heart to know that I am the LORD, and they shall be my people and I will be their
God, for they shall return to me with their whole heart.
Jer 24:8 "But thus says the LORD: Like the bad figs that are so bad they cannot be eaten, so will I treat
Zedekiah the king of Judah, his officials, the remnant of Jerusalem who remain in this land, and those who dwell
in the land of Egypt.
Jer 24:9 I will make them a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth, to be a reproach, a byword, a taunt, and a
curse in all the places where I shall drive them.
Jer 24:10 And I will send sword, famine, and pestilence upon them, until they shall be utterly destroyed from the
land that I gave to them and their fathers."
Jer 25:1 The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the
son of Josiah, king of Judah (that was the first year of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon),
Jer 25:2 which Jeremiah the prophet spoke to all the people of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem:
Jer 25:3 "For twenty-three years, from the thirteenth year of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah, to this day,
the word of the LORD has come to me, and I have spoken persistently to you, but you have not listened.
Jer 25:4 You have neither listened nor inclined your ears to hear, although the LORD persistently sent to you all
his servants the prophets,
Jer 25:5 saying, 'Turn now, every one of you, from his evil way and evil deeds, and dwell upon the land that the
LORD has given to you and your fathers from of old and forever.
Jer 25:6 Do not go after other gods to serve and worship them, or provoke me to anger with the work of your
hands. Then I will do you no harm.'
Jer 25:7 Yet you have not listened to me, declares the LORD, that you might provoke me to anger with the work
of your hands to your own harm.
Jer 25:8 "Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts: Because you have not obeyed my words,
Jer 25:9 behold, I will send for all the tribes of the north, declares the LORD, and for Nebuchadnezzar the king
of Babylon, my servant, and I will bring them against this land and its inhabitants, and against all these
surrounding nations. I will devote them to destruction, and make them a horror, a hissing, and an everlasting
desolation.
Jer 25:10 Moreover, I will banish from them the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the
bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the grinding of the millstones and the light of the lamp.
Jer 25:11 This whole land shall become a ruin and a waste, and these nations shall serve the king of Babylonseventy years.
Jer 25:12 Then after seventy years are completed, I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation, the land of
the Chaldeans, for their iniquity, declares the LORD, making the land an everlasting waste.
Jer 25:13 I will bring upon that land all the words that I have uttered against it, everything written in this book,
which Jeremiah prophesied against all the nations.
Jer 25:14 For many nations and great kings shall make slaves even of them, and I will recompense them
according to their deeds and the work of their hands."
Jer 25:15 Thus the LORD, the God of Israel, said to me: "Take from my hand this cup of the wine of wrath, and
make all the nations to whom I send you drink it.
Jer 25:16 They shall drink and stagger and be crazed because of the sword that I am sending among them."
Jer 25:17 So I took the cup from the LORD's hand, and made all the nations to whom the LORD sent me drink
it:
Jer 25:18 Jerusalem and the cities of Judah, its kings and officials, to make them a desolation and a waste, a
hissing and a curse, as at this day;
Jer 25:19 Pharaoh king of Egypt, his servants, his officials, all his people,
Jer 25:20 and all the mixed tribes among them; all the kings of the land of Uz and all the kings of the land of the
Philistines ( Ashkelon, Gaza, Ekron, and the remnant of Ashdod);
Jer 25:21 Edom, Moab, and the sons of Ammon;
Jer 25:22 all the kings of Tyre, all the kings of Sidon, and the kings of the coastland across the sea;
Jer 25:23 Dedan, Tema, Buz, and all who cut the corners of their hair;
Jer 25:24 all the kings of Arabia and all the kings of the mixed tribes who dwell in the desert;
Jer 25:25 all the kings of Zimri, all the kings of Elam, and all the kings of Media;
Jer 25:26 all the kings of the north, far and near, one after another, and all the kingdoms of the world that are on
the face of the earth. And after them the king of Babylon shall drink.
Jer 25:27 "Then you shall say to them, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Drink, be drunk and
vomit, fall and rise no more, because of the sword that I am sending among you.'
Jer 25:28 "And if they refuse to accept the cup from your hand to drink, then you shall say to them, 'Thus says
the LORD of hosts: You must drink!
Jer 25:29 For behold, I begin to work disaster at the city that is called by my name, and shall you go
unpunished? You shall not go unpunished, for I am summoning a sword against all the inhabitants of the earth,
declares the LORD of hosts.'
Jer 25:30 "You, therefore, shall prophesy against them all these words, and say to them: "' The LORD will roar
from on high, and from his holy habitation utter his voice; he will roar mightily against his fold, and shout, like
those who tread grapes, against all the inhabitants of the earth.
Jer 25:31 The clamor will resound to the ends of the earth, for the LORD has an indictment against the nations;
he is entering into judgment with all flesh, and the wicked he will put to the sword, declares the LORD.'
Jer 25:32 "Thus says the LORD of hosts: Behold, disaster is going forth from nation to nation, and a great
tempest is stirring from the farthest parts of the earth!
Jer 25:33 "And those pierced by the LORD on that day shall extend from one end of the earth to the other. They
shall not be lamented, or gathered, or buried; they shall be dung on the surface of the ground.
Jer 25:34 "Wail, you shepherds, and cry out, and roll in ashes, you lords of the flock, for the days of your
slaughter and dispersion have come, and you shall fall like a choice vessel.
Jer 25:35 No refuge will remain for the shepherds, nor escape for the lords of the flock.
Jer 25:36 A voice- the cry of the shepherds, and the wail of the lords of the flock! For the LORD is laying waste
their pasture,
Jer 25:37 and the peaceful folds are devastated because of the fierce anger of the LORD.
Jer 25:38 Like a lion he has left his lair, for their land has become a waste because of the sword of the
oppressor, and because of his fierce anger."
Jer 26:1 In the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, this word came from the
LORD:
Jer 26:2 "Thus says the LORD: Stand in the court of the LORD's house, and speak to all the cities of Judah that
come to worship in the house of the LORD all the words that I command you to speak to them; do not hold back
a word.
Jer 26:3 It may be they will listen, and every one turn from his evil way, that I may relent of the disaster that I
intend to do to them because of their evil deeds.
Jer 26:4 You shall say to them, 'Thus says the LORD: If you will not listen to me, to walk in my law that I have
set before you,
Jer 26:5 and to listen to the words of my servants the prophets whom I send to you urgently, though you have
not listened,Jer 26:6 then I will make this house like Shiloh, and I will make this city a curse for all the nations of the earth.'"
Jer 26:7 The priests and the prophets and all the people heard Jeremiah speaking these words in the house of
the LORD.
Jer 26:8 And when Jeremiah had finished speaking all that the LORD had commanded him to speak to all the
people, then the priests and the prophets and all the people laid hold of him, saying, "You shall die!
Jer 26:9 Why have you prophesied in the name of the LORD, saying, 'This house shall be like Shiloh, and this
city shall be desolate, without inhabitant'?" And all the people gathered around Jeremiah in the house of the
LORD.
Jer 26:10 When the officials of Judah heard these things, they came up from the king's house to the house of
the LORD and took their seat in the entry of the New Gate of the house of the LORD.
Jer 26:11 Then the priests and the prophets said to the officials and to all the people, "This man deserves the
sentence of death, because he has prophesied against this city, as you have heard with your own ears."
Jer 26:12 Then Jeremiah spoke to all the officials and all the people, saying, "The LORD sent me to prophesy
against this house and this city all the words you have heard.
Jer 26:13 Now therefore mend your ways and your deeds, and obey the voice of the LORD your God, and the
LORD will relent of the disaster that he has pronounced against you.
Jer 26:14 But as for me, behold, I am in your hands. Do with me as seems good and right to you.
Jer 26:15 Only know for certain that if you put me to death, you will bring innocent blood upon yourselves and
upon this city and its inhabitants, for in truth the LORD sent me to you to speak all these words in your ears."
Jer 26:16 Then the officials and all the people said to the priests and the prophets, "This man does not deserve
the sentence of death, for he has spoken to us in the name of the LORD our God."
Jer 26:17 And certain of the elders of the land arose and spoke to all the assembled people, saying,
Jer 26:18 "Micah of Moresheth prophesied in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and said to all the people of
Judah: 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, "' Zion shall be plowed as a field; Jerusalem shall become a heap of ruins,
and the mountain of the house a wooded height.'
Jer 26:19 Did Hezekiah king of Judah and all Judah put him to death? Did he not fear the LORD and entreat the
favor of the LORD, and did not the LORD relent of the disaster that he had pronounced against them? But we
are about to bring great disaster upon ourselves."
Jer 26:20 There was another man who prophesied in the name of the LORD, Uriah the son of Shemaiah from
Kiriath-jearim. He prophesied against this city and against this land in words like those of Jeremiah.
Jer 26:21 And when King Jehoiakim, with all his warriors and all the officials, heard his words, the king sought to
put him to death. But when Uriah heard of it, he was afraid and fled and escaped to Egypt.
Jer 26:22 Then King Jehoiakim sent to Egypt certain men, Elnathan the son of Achbor and others with him,
Jer 26:23 and they took Uriah from Egypt and brought him to King Jehoiakim, who struck him down with the
sword and dumped his dead body into the burial place of the common people.
Jer 26:24 But the hand of Ahikam the son of Shaphan was with Jeremiah so that he was not given over to the
people to be put to death.
Jer 27:1 In the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah the son of Josiah, king of Judah, this word came to Jeremiah
from the LORD.
Jer 27:2 Thus the LORD said to me: "Make yourself straps and yoke-bars, and put them on your neck.
Jer 27:3 Send word to the king of Edom, the king of Moab, the king of the sons of Ammon, the king of Tyre, and
the king of Sidon by the hand of the envoys who have come to Jerusalem to Zedekiah king of Judah.
Jer 27:4 Give them this charge for their masters: 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: This is what
you shall say to your masters:
Jer 27:5 "It is I who by my great power and my outstretched arm have made the earth, with the men and
animals that are on the earth, and I give it to whomever it seems right to me.
Jer 27:6 Now I have given all these lands into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my servant,
and I have given him also the beasts of the field to serve him.
Jer 27:7 All the nations shall serve him and his son and his grandson, until the time of his own land comes.
Then many nations and great kings shall make him their slave.
Jer 27:8 "'"But if any nation or kingdom will not serve this Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and put its neck
under the yoke of the king of Babylon, I will punish that nation with the sword, with famine, and with pestilence,
declares the LORD, until I have consumed it by his hand.
Jer 27:9 So do not listen to your prophets, your diviners, your dreamers, your fortune-tellers, or your sorcerers,
who are saying to you, 'You shall not serve the king of Babylon.'
Jer 27:10 For it is a lie that they are prophesying to you, with the result that you will be removed far from your
land, and I will drive you out, and you will perish.
Jer 27:11 But any nation that will bring its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon and serve him, I will leave
on its own land, to work it and dwell there, declares the LORD."'"Jer 27:12 To Zedekiah king of Judah I spoke in like manner: "Bring your necks under the yoke of the king of
Babylon, and serve him and his people and live.
Jer 27:13 Why will you and your people die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence, as the LORD has
spoken concerning any nation that will not serve the king of Babylon?
Jer 27:14 Do not listen to the words of the prophets who are saying to you, 'You shall not serve the king of
Babylon,' for it is a lie that they are prophesying to you.
Jer 27:15 I have not sent them, declares the LORD, but they are prophesying falsely in my name, with the result
that I will drive you out and you will perish, you and the prophets who are prophesying to you."
Jer 27:16 Then I spoke to the priests and to all this people, saying, "Thus says the LORD: Do not listen to the
words of your prophets who are prophesying to you, saying, 'Behold, the vessels of the LORD's house will now
shortly be brought back from Babylon,' for it is a lie that they are prophesying to you.
Jer 27:17 Do not listen to them; serve the king of Babylon and live. Why should this city become a desolation?
Jer 27:18 If they are prophets, and if the word of the LORD is with them, then let them intercede with the LORD
of hosts, that the vessels that are left in the house of the LORD, in the house of the king of Judah, and in
Jerusalem may not go to Babylon.
Jer 27:19 For thus says the LORD of hosts concerning the pillars, the sea, the stands, and the rest of the
vessels that are left in this city,
Jer 27:20 which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon did not take away, when he took into exile from Jerusalem to
Babylon Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, and all the nobles of Judah and JerusalemJer 27:21 thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, concerning the vessels that are left in the house of
the LORD, in the house of the king of Judah, and in Jerusalem:
Jer 27:22 They shall be carried to Babylon and remain there until the day when I visit them, declares the LORD.
Then I will bring them back and restore them to this place."
Jer 28:1 In that same year, at the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the fifth month of the
fourth year, Hananiah the son of Azzur, the prophet from Gibeon, spoke to me in the house of the LORD, in the
presence of the priests and all the people, saying,
Jer 28:2 "Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon.
Jer 28:3 Within two years I will bring back to this place all the vessels of the LORD's house, which
Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took away from this place and carried to Babylon.
Jer 28:4 I will also bring back to this place Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, and all the exiles from
Judah who went to Babylon, declares the LORD, for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon."
Jer 28:5 Then the prophet Jeremiah spoke to Hananiah the prophet in the presence of the priests and all the
people who were standing in the house of the LORD,
Jer 28:6 and the prophet Jeremiah said, "Amen! May the LORD do so; may the LORD make the words that you
have prophesied come true, and bring back to this place from Babylon the vessels of the house of the LORD,
and all the exiles.
Jer 28:7 Yet hear now this word that I speak in your hearing and in the hearing of all the people.
Jer 28:8 The prophets who preceded you and me from ancient times prophesied war, famine, and pestilence
against many countries and great kingdoms.
Jer 28:9 As for the prophet who prophesies peace, when the word of that prophet comes to pass, then it will be
known that the LORD has truly sent the prophet."
Jer 28:10 Then the prophet Hananiah took the yoke-bars from the neck of Jeremiah the prophet and broke
them.
Jer 28:11 And Hananiah spoke in the presence of all the people, saying, "Thus says the LORD: Even so will I
break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon from the neck of all the nations within two years." But
Jeremiah the prophet went his way.
Jer 28:12 Sometime after the prophet Hananiah had broken the yoke-bars from off the neck of Jeremiah the
prophet, the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jer 28:13 "Go, tell Hananiah, 'Thus says the LORD: You have broken wooden bars, but you have made in their
place bars of iron.
Jer 28:14 For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: I have put upon the neck of all these nations an
iron yoke to serve Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and they shall serve him, for I have given to him even the
beasts of the field.'"
Jer 28:15 And Jeremiah the prophet said to the prophet Hananiah, "Listen, Hananiah, the LORD has not sent
you, and you have made this people trust in a lie.
Jer 28:16 Therefore thus says the LORD: 'Behold, I will remove you from the face of the earth. This year you
shall die, because you have uttered rebellion against the LORD.'"
Jer 28:17 In that same year, in the seventh month, the prophet Hananiah died.
Jer 29:1 These are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem to the surviving eldersof the exiles, and to the priests, the prophets, and all the people, whom Nebuchadnezzar had taken into exile
from Jerusalem to Babylon.
Jer 29:2 This was after King Jeconiah and the queen mother, the eunuchs, the officials of Judah and Jerusalem,
the craftsmen, and the metal workers had departed from Jerusalem.
Jer 29:3 The letter was sent by the hand of Elasah the son of Shaphan and Gemariah the son of Hilkiah, whom
Zedekiah king of Judah sent to Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon. It said:
Jer 29:4 "Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, to all the exiles whom I have sent into exile from
Jerusalem to Babylon:
Jer 29:5 Build houses and live in them; plant gardens and eat their produce.
Jer 29:6 Take wives and have sons and daughters; take wives for your sons, and give your daughters in
marriage, that they may bear sons and daughters; multiply there, and do not decrease.
Jer 29:7 But seek the welfare of the city where I have sent you into exile, and pray to the LORD on its behalf, for
in its welfare you will find your welfare.
Jer 29:8 For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Do not let your prophets and your diviners who are
among you deceive you, and do not listen to the dreams that they dream,
Jer 29:9 for it is a lie that they are prophesying to you in my name; I did not send them, declares the LORD.
Jer 29:10 "For thus says the LORD: When seventy years are completed for Babylon, I will visit you, and I will
fulfill to you my promise and bring you back to this place.
Jer 29:11 For I know the plans I have for you, declares the LORD, plans for wholeness and not for evil, to give
you a future and a hope.
Jer 29:12 Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will hear you.
Jer 29:13 You will seek me and find me. When you seek me with all your heart,
Jer 29:14 I will be found by you, declares the LORD, and I will restore your fortunes and gather you from all the
nations and all the places where I have driven you, declares the LORD, and I will bring you back to the place
from which I sent you into exile.
Jer 29:15 "Because you have said, 'The LORD has raised up prophets for us in Babylon,'
Jer 29:16 thus says the LORD concerning the king who sits on the throne of David, and concerning all the
people who dwell in this city, your kinsmen who did not go out with you into exile:
Jer 29:17 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, behold, I am sending on them sword, famine, and pestilence, and I will
make them like vile figs that are so rotten they cannot be eaten.
Jer 29:18 I will pursue them with sword, famine, and pestilence, and will make them a horror to all the kingdoms
of the earth, to be a curse, a terror, a hissing, and a reproach among all the nations where I have driven them,
Jer 29:19 because they did not pay attention to my words, declares the LORD, that I persistently sent to you by
my servants the prophets, but you would not listen, declares the LORD.'
Jer 29:20 Hear the word of the LORD, all you exiles whom I sent away from Jerusalem to Babylon:
Jer 29:21 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, concerning Ahab the son of Kolaiah and Zedekiah
the son of Maaseiah, who are prophesying a lie to you in my name: Behold, I will deliver them into the hand of
Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and he shall strike them down before your eyes.
Jer 29:22 Because of them this curse shall be used by all the exiles from Judah in Babylon: "The LORD make
you like Zedekiah and Ahab, whom the king of Babylon roasted in the fire,"
Jer 29:23 because they have done an outrageous thing in Israel, they have committed adultery with their
neighbors' wives, and they have spoken in my name lying words that I did not command them. I am the one who
knows, and I am witness, declares the LORD.'"
Jer 29:24 To Shemaiah of Nehelam you shall say:
Jer 29:25 "Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: You have sent letters in your name to all the people
who are in Jerusalem, and to Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah the priest, and to all the priests, saying,
Jer 29:26 'The LORD has made you priest instead of Jehoiada the priest, to have charge in the house of the
LORD over every madman who prophesies, to put him in the stocks and neck irons.
Jer 29:27 Now why have you not rebuked Jeremiah of Anathoth who is prophesying to you?
Jer 29:28 For he has sent to us in Babylon, saying, "Your exile will be long; build houses and live in them, and
plant gardens and eat their produce."'"
Jer 29:29 Zephaniah the priest read this letter in the hearing of Jeremiah the prophet.
Jer 29:30 Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jer 29:31 "Send to all the exiles, saying, 'Thus says the LORD concerning Shemaiah of Nehelam: Because
Shemaiah had prophesied to you when I did not send him, and has made you trust in a lie,
Jer 29:32 therefore thus says the LORD: Behold, I will punish Shemaiah of Nehelam and his descendants. He
shall not have anyone living among this people, and he shall not see the good that I will do to my people,
declares the LORD, for he has spoken rebellion against the LORD.'"
Jer 30:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD:Jer 30:2 "Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Write in a book all the words that I have spoken to you.
Jer 30:3 For behold, days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will restore the fortunes of my people, Israel
and Judah, says the LORD, and I will bring them back to the land that I gave to their fathers, and they shall take
possession of it."
Jer 30:4 These are the words that the LORD spoke concerning Israel and Judah:
Jer 30:5 "Thus says the LORD: We have heard a cry of panic, of terror, and no peace.
Jer 30:6 Ask now, and see, can a man bear a child? Why then do I see every man with his hands on his
stomach like a woman in labor? Why has every face turned pale?
Jer 30:7 Alas! That day is so great there is none like it; it is a time of distress for Jacob; yet he shall be saved
out of it.
Jer 30:8 "And it shall come to pass in that day, declares the LORD of hosts, that I will break his yoke from off
your neck, and I will burst your bonds, and foreigners shall no more make a servant of him.
Jer 30:9 But they shall serve the LORD their God and David their king, whom I will raise up for them.
Jer 30:10 "Then fear not, O Jacob my servant, declares the LORD, nor be dismayed, O Israel; for behold, I will
save you from far away, and your offspring from the land of their captivity. Jacob shall return and have quiet and
ease, and none shall make him afraid.
Jer 30:11 For I am with you to save you, declares the LORD; I will make a full end of all the nations among
whom I scattered you, but of you I will not make a full end. I will discipline you in just measure, and I will by no
means leave you unpunished.
Jer 30:12 "For thus says the LORD: Your hurt is incurable, and your wound is grievous.
Jer 30:13 There is none to uphold your cause, no medicine for your wound, no healing for you.
Jer 30:14 All your lovers have forgotten you; they care nothing for you; for I have dealt you the blow of an
enemy, the punishment of a merciless foe, because your guilt is great, because your sins are flagrant.
Jer 30:15 Why do you cry out over your hurt? Your pain is incurable. Because your guilt is great, because your
sins are flagrant, I have done these things to you.
Jer 30:16 Therefore all who devour you shall be devoured, and all your foes, every one of them, shall go into
captivity; those who plunder you shall be plundered, and all who prey on you I will make a prey.
Jer 30:17 For I will restore health to you, and your wounds I will heal, declares the LORD, because they have
called you an outcast: 'It is Zion, for whom no one cares!'
Jer 30:18 "Thus says the LORD: Behold, I will restore the fortunes of the tents of Jacob and have compassion
on his dwellings; the city shall be rebuilt on its mound, and the palace shall stand where it used to be.
Jer 30:19 Out of them shall come songs of thanksgiving, and the voices of those who celebrate. I will multiply
them, and they shall not be few; I will make them honored, and they shall not be small.
Jer 30:20 Their children shall be as they were of old, and their congregation shall be established before me, and
I will punish all who oppress them.
Jer 30:21 Their prince shall be one of themselves; their ruler shall come out from their midst; I will make him
draw near, and he shall approach me, for who would dare of himself to approach me? declares the LORD.
Jer 30:22 And you shall be my people, and I will be your God."
Jer 30:23 Behold the storm of the LORD! Wrath has gone forth, a whirling tempest; it will burst upon the head of
the wicked.
Jer 30:24 The fierce anger of the LORD will not turn back until he has executed and accomplished the intentions
of his mind. In the latter days you will understand this.
Jer 31:1 "At that time, declares the LORD, I will be the God of all the clans of Israel, and they shall be my
people."
Jer 31:2 Thus says the LORD: "The people who survived the sword found grace in the wilderness; when Israel
sought for rest,
Jer 31:3 the LORD appeared to him from far away. I have loved you with an everlasting love; therefore I have
continued my faithfulness to you.
Jer 31:4 Again I will build you, and you shall be built, O virgin Israel! Again you shall adorn yourself with
tambourines and shall go forth in the dance of the merrymakers.
Jer 31:5 Again you shall plant vineyards on the mountains of Samaria; the planters shall plant and shall enjoy
the fruit.
Jer 31:6 For there shall be a day when watchmen will call in the hill country of Ephraim: 'Arise, and let us go up
to Zion, to the LORD our God.'"
Jer 31:7 For thus says the LORD: "Sing aloud with gladness for Jacob, and raise shouts for the chief of the
nations; proclaim, give praise, and say, 'O LORD, save your people, the remnant of Israel.'
Jer 31:8 Behold, I will bring them from the north country and gather them from the farthest parts of the earth,
among them the blind and the lame, the pregnant woman and her who is in labor, together; a great company,
they shall return here.Jer 31:9 With weeping they shall come, and with pleas for mercy I will lead them back, I will make them walk by
brooks of water, in a straight path in which they shall not stumble, for I am a father to Israel, and Ephraim is my
firstborn.
Jer 31:10 "Hear the word of the LORD, O nations, and declare it in the coastlands far away; say, 'He who
scattered Israel will gather him, and will keep him as a shepherd keeps his flock.'
Jer 31:11 For the LORD has ransomed Jacob and has redeemed him from hands too strong for him.
Jer 31:12 They shall come and sing aloud on the height of Zion, and they shall be radiant over the goodness of
the LORD, over the grain, the wine, and the oil, and over the young of the flock and the herd; their life shall be
like a watered garden, and they shall languish no more.
Jer 31:13 Then shall the young women rejoice in the dance, and the young men and the old shall be merry. I will
turn their mourning into joy; I will comfort them, and give them gladness for sorrow.
Jer 31:14 I will feast the soul of the priests with abundance, and my people shall be satisfied with my goodness,
declares the LORD."
Jer 31:15 Thus says the LORD: "A voice is heard in Ramah, lamentation and bitter weeping. Rachel is weeping
for her children; she refuses to be comforted for her children, because they are no more."
Jer 31:16 Thus says the LORD: "Keep your voice from weeping, and your eyes from tears, for there is a reward
for your work, declares the LORD, and they shall come back from the land of the enemy.
Jer 31:17 There is hope for your future, declares the LORD, and your children shall come back to their own
country.
Jer 31:18 I have heard Ephraim grieving, 'You have disciplined me, and I was disciplined, like an untrained calf;
bring me back that I may be restored, for you are the LORD my God.
Jer 31:19 For after I had turned away, I relented, and after I was instructed, I slapped my thigh; I was ashamed,
and I was confounded, because I bore the disgrace of my youth.'
Jer 31:20 Is Ephraim my dear son? Is he my darling child? For as often as I speak against him, I do remember
him still. Therefore my heart yearns for him; I will surely have mercy on him, declares the LORD.
Jer 31:21 "Set up road markers for yourself; make yourself guideposts; consider well the highway, the road by
which you went. Return, O virgin Israel, return to these your cities.
Jer 31:22 How long will you waver, O faithless daughter? For the LORD has created a new thing on the earth: a
woman encircles a man."
Jer 31:23 Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: "Once more they shall use these words in the land of
Judah and in its cities, when I restore their fortunes: "' The LORD bless you, O habitation of righteousness, O
holy hill!'
Jer 31:24 And Judah and all its cities shall dwell there together, and the farmers and those who wander with
their flocks.
Jer 31:25 For I will satisfy the weary soul, and every languishing soul I will replenish."
Jer 31:26 At this I awoke and looked, and my sleep was pleasant to me.
Jer 31:27 "Behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will sow the house of Israel and the house
of Judah with the seed of man and the seed of beast.
Jer 31:28 And it shall come to pass that as I have watched over them to pluck up and break down, to overthrow,
destroy, and bring harm, so I will watch over them to build and to plant, declares the LORD.
Jer 31:29 In those days they shall no longer say: "' The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth
are set on edge.'
Jer 31:30 But everyone shall die for his own sin. Each man who eats sour grapes, his teeth shall be set on
edge.
Jer 31:31 "Behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will make a new covenant with the house of
Israel and the house of Judah,
Jer 31:32 not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring
them out of the land of Egypt, my covenant that they broke, though I was their husband, declares the LORD.
Jer 31:33 But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the LORD: I
will put my law within them, and I will write it on their hearts. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
Jer 31:34 And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor and each his brother, saying, 'Know the LORD,' for
they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the LORD. For I will forgive their iniquity,
and I will remember their sin no more."
Jer 31:35 Thus says the LORD, who gives the sun for light by day and the fixed order of the moon and the stars
for light by night, who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar- the LORD of hosts is his name:
Jer 31:36 "If this fixed order departs from before me, declares the LORD, then shall the offspring of Israel cease
from being a nation before me forever."
Jer 31:37 Thus says the LORD: "If the heavens above can be measured, and the foundations of the earth below
can be explored, then I will cast off all the offspring of Israel for all that they have done, declares the LORD."Jer 31:38 "Behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when the city shall be rebuilt for the LORD from
the tower of Hananel to the Corner Gate.
Jer 31:39 And the measuring line shall go out farther, straight to the hill Gareb, and shall then turn to Goah.
Jer 31:40 The whole valley of the dead bodies and the ashes, and all the fields as far as the brook Kidron, to the
corner of the Horse Gate toward the east, shall be sacred to the LORD. It shall not be uprooted or overthrown
anymore forever."
Jer 32:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD in the tenth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, which was
the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar.
Jer 32:2 At that time the army of the king of Babylon was besieging Jerusalem, and Jeremiah the prophet was
shut up in the court of the guard that was in the palace of the king of Judah.
Jer 32:3 For Zedekiah king of Judah had imprisoned him, saying, "Why do you prophesy and say, 'Thus says
the LORD: Behold, I am giving this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall capture it;
Jer 32:4 Zedekiah king of Judah shall not escape out of the hand of the Chaldeans, but shall surely be given
into the hand of the king of Babylon, and shall speak with him face to face and see him eye to eye.
Jer 32:5 And he shall take Zedekiah to Babylon, and there he shall remain until I visit him, declares the LORD.
Though you fight against the Chaldeans, you shall not succeed'?"
Jer 32:6 Jeremiah said, "The word of the LORD came to me:
Jer 32:7 Behold, Hanamel the son of Shallum your uncle will come to you and say, 'Buy my field that is at
Anathoth, for the right of redemption by purchase is yours.'
Jer 32:8 Then Hanamel my cousin came to me in the court of the guard, in accordance with the word of the
LORD, and said to me, 'Buy my field that is at Anathoth in the land of Benjamin, for the right of possession and
redemption is yours; buy it for yourself.' Then I knew that this was the word of the LORD.
Jer 32:9 "And I bought the field at Anathoth from Hanamel my cousin, and weighed out the money to him,
seventeen shekels of silver.
Jer 32:10 I signed the deed, sealed it, got witnesses, and weighed the money on scales.
Jer 32:11 Then I took the sealed deed of purchase, containing the terms and conditions and the open copy.
Jer 32:12 And I gave the deed of purchase to Baruch the son of Neriah son of Mahseiah, in the presence of
Hanamel my cousin, in the presence of the witnesses who signed the deed of purchase, and in the presence of
all the Judeans who were sitting in the court of the guard.
Jer 32:13 I charged Baruch in their presence, saying,
Jer 32:14 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Take these deeds, both this sealed deed of
purchase and this open deed, and put them in an earthenware vessel, that they may last for a long time.
Jer 32:15 For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Houses and fields and vineyards shall again be
bought in this land.'
Jer 32:16 "After I had given the deed of purchase to Baruch the son of Neriah, I prayed to the LORD, saying:
Jer 32:17 'Ah, Lord GOD! It is you who has made the heavens and the earth by your great power and by your
outstretched arm! Nothing is too hard for you.
Jer 32:18 You show steadfast love to thousands, but you repay the guilt of fathers to their children after them, O
great and mighty God, whose name is the LORD of hosts,
Jer 32:19 great in counsel and mighty in deed, whose eyes are open to all the ways of the children of man,
rewarding each one according to his ways and according to the fruit of his deeds.
Jer 32:20 You have shown signs and wonders in the land of Egypt, and to this day in Israel and among all
mankind, and have made a name for yourself, as at this day.
Jer 32:21 You brought your people Israel out of the land of Egypt with signs and wonders, with a strong hand
and outstretched arm, and with great terror.
Jer 32:22 And you gave them this land, which you swore to their fathers to give them, a land flowing with milk
and honey.
Jer 32:23 And they entered and took possession of it. But they did not obey your voice or walk in your law. They
did nothing of all you commanded them to do. Therefore you have made all this disaster come upon them.
Jer 32:24 Behold, the siege mounds have come up to the city to take it, and because of sword and famine and
pestilence the city is given into the hands of the Chaldeans who are fighting against it. What you spoke has
come to pass, and behold, you see it.
Jer 32:25 Yet you, O Lord GOD, have said to me, "Buy the field for money and get witnesses"- though the city is
given into the hands of the Chaldeans.'"
Jer 32:26 The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jer 32:27 "Behold, I am the LORD, the God of all flesh. Is anything too hard for me?
Jer 32:28 Therefore, thus says the LORD: Behold, I am giving this city into the hands of the Chaldeans and into
the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and he shall capture it.
Jer 32:29 The Chaldeans who are fighting against this city shall come and set this city on fire and burn it, withthe houses on whose roofs offerings have been made to Baal and drink offerings have been poured out to other
gods, to provoke me to anger.
Jer 32:30 For the children of Israel and the children of Judah have done nothing but evil in my sight from their
youth. The children of Israel have done nothing but provoke me to anger by the work of their hands, declares the
LORD.
Jer 32:31 This city has aroused my anger and wrath, from the day it was built to this day, so that I will remove it
from my sight
Jer 32:32 because of all the evil of the children of Israel and the children of Judah that they did to provoke me to
anger- their kings and their officials, their priests and their prophets, the men of Judah and the inhabitants of
Jerusalem.
Jer 32:33 They have turned to me their back and not their face. And though I have taught them persistently,
they have not listened to receive instruction.
Jer 32:34 They set up their abominations in the house that is called by my name, to defile it.
Jer 32:35 They built the high places of Baal in the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, to offer up their sons and
daughters to Molech, though I did not command them, nor did it enter into my mind, that they should do this
abomination, to cause Judah to sin.
Jer 32:36 "Now therefore thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, concerning this city of which you say, 'It is
given into the hand of the king of Babylon by sword, by famine, and by pestilence':
Jer 32:37 Behold, I will gather them from all the countries to which I drove them in my anger and my wrath and
in great indignation. I will bring them back to this place, and I will make them dwell in safety.
Jer 32:38 And they shall be my people, and I will be their God.
Jer 32:39 I will give them one heart and one way, that they may fear me forever, for their own good and the
good of their children after them.
Jer 32:40 I will make with them an everlasting covenant, that I will not turn away from doing good to them. And I
will put the fear of me in their hearts, that they may not turn from me.
Jer 32:41 I will rejoice in doing them good, and I will plant them in this land in faithfulness, with all my heart and
all my soul.
Jer 32:42 "For thus says the LORD: Just as I have brought all this great disaster upon this people, so I will bring
upon them all the good that I promise them.
Jer 32:43 Fields shall be bought in this land of which you are saying, 'It is a desolation, without man or beast; it
is given into the hand of the Chaldeans.'
Jer 32:44 Fields shall be bought for money, and deeds shall be signed and sealed and witnessed, in the land of
Benjamin, in the places about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, in the cities of the hill country, in the cities of
the Shephelah, and in the cities of the Negeb; for I will restore their fortunes, declares the LORD."
Jer 33:1 The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah a second time, while he was still shut up in the court of the
guard:
Jer 33:2 "Thus says the LORD who made the earth, the LORD who formed it to establish it- the LORD is his
name:
Jer 33:3 Call to me and I will answer you, and will tell you great and hidden things that you have not known.
Jer 33:4 For thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, concerning the houses of this city and the houses of the
kings of Judah that were torn down to make a defense against the siege mounds and against the sword:
Jer 33:5 They are coming in to fight against the Chaldeans and to fill them with the dead bodies of men whom I
shall strike down in my anger and my wrath, for I have hidden my face from this city because of all their evil.
Jer 33:6 Behold, I will bring to it health and healing, and I will heal them and reveal to them abundance of
prosperity and security.
Jer 33:7 I will restore the fortunes of Judah and the fortunes of Israel, and rebuild them as they were at first.
Jer 33:8 I will cleanse them from all the guilt of their sin against me, and I will forgive all the guilt of their sin and
rebellion against me.
Jer 33:9 And this city shall be to me a name of joy, a praise and a glory before all the nations of the earth who
shall hear of all the good that I do for them. They shall fear and tremble because of all the good and all the
prosperity I provide for it.
Jer 33:10 "Thus says the LORD: In this place of which you say, 'It is a waste without man or beast,' in the cities
of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem that are desolate, without man or inhabitant or beast, there shall be heard
again
Jer 33:11 the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride,
the voices of those who sing, as they bring thank offerings to the house of the LORD: "' Give thanks to the LORD
of hosts, for the LORD is good, for his steadfast love endures forever!' For I will restore the fortunes of the land
as at first, says the LORD.
Jer 33:12 "Thus says the LORD of hosts: In this place that is waste, without man or beast, and in all of its cities,there shall again be habitations of shepherds resting their flocks.
Jer 33:13 In the cities of the hill country, in the cities of the Shephelah, and in the cities of the Negeb, in the land
of Benjamin, the places about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, flocks shall again pass under the hands of
the one who counts them, says the LORD.
Jer 33:14 "Behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will fulfill the promise I made to the house
of Israel and the house of Judah.
Jer 33:15 In those days and at that time I will cause a righteous Branch to spring up for David, and he shall
execute justice and righteousness in the land.
Jer 33:16 In those days Judah will be saved and Jerusalem will dwell securely. And this is the name by which it
will be called: 'The LORD is our righteousness.'
Jer 33:17 "For thus says the LORD: David shall never lack a man to sit on the throne of the house of Israel,
Jer 33:18 and the Levitical priests shall never lack a man in my presence to offer burnt offerings, to burn grain
offerings, and to make sacrifices forever."
Jer 33:19 The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jer 33:20 "Thus says the LORD: If you can break my covenant with the day and my covenant with the night, so
that day and night will not come at their appointed time,
Jer 33:21 then also my covenant with David my servant may be broken, so that he shall not have a son to reign
on his throne, and my covenant with the Levitical priests my ministers.
Jer 33:22 As the host of heaven cannot be numbered and the sands of the sea cannot be measured, so I will
multiply the offspring of David my servant, and the Levitical priests who minister to me."
Jer 33:23 The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jer 33:24 "Have you not observed that these people are saying, 'The LORD has rejected the two clans that he
chose'? Thus they have despised my people so that they are no longer a nation in their sight.
Jer 33:25 Thus says the LORD: If I have not established my covenant with day and night and the fixed order of
heaven and earth,
Jer 33:26 then I will reject the offspring of Jacob and David my servant and will not choose one of his offspring
to rule over the offspring of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. For I will restore their fortunes and will have mercy on
them."
Jer 34:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, when Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and all his
army and all the kingdoms of the earth under his dominion and all the peoples were fighting against Jerusalem
and all of its cities:
Jer 34:2 "Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Go and speak to Zedekiah king of Judah and say to him,
'Thus says the LORD: Behold, I am giving this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with
fire.
Jer 34:3 You shall not escape from his hand but shall surely be captured and delivered into his hand. You shall
see the king of Babylon eye to eye and speak with him face to face. And you shall go to Babylon.'
Jer 34:4 Yet hear the word of the LORD, O Zedekiah king of Judah! Thus says the LORD concerning you: 'You
shall not die by the sword.
Jer 34:5 You shall die in peace. And as spices were burned for your fathers, the former kings who were before
you, so people shall burn spices for you and lament for you, saying, "Alas, lord!"'For I have spoken the word,
declares the LORD."
Jer 34:6 Then Jeremiah the prophet spoke all these words to Zedekiah king of Judah, in Jerusalem,
Jer 34:7 when the army of the king of Babylon was fighting against Jerusalem and against all the cities of Judah
that were left, Lachish and Azekah, for these were the only fortified cities of Judah that remained.
Jer 34:8 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, after King Zedekiah had made a covenant with all the
people in Jerusalem to make a proclamation of liberty to them,
Jer 34:9 that everyone should set free his Hebrew slaves, male and female, so that no one should enslave a
Jew, his brother.
Jer 34:10 And they obeyed, all the officials and all the people who had entered into the covenant that everyone
would set free his slave, male or female, so that they would not be enslaved again. They obeyed and set them
free.
Jer 34:11 But afterward they turned around and took back the male and female slaves they had set free, and
brought them into subjection as slaves.
Jer 34:12 The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah from the LORD:
Jer 34:13 "Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: I myself made a covenant with your fathers when I brought
them out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage, saying,
Jer 34:14 'At the end of seven years each of you must set free the fellow Hebrew who has been sold to you and
has served you six years; you must set him free from your service.' But your fathers did not listen to me or incline
their ears to me.Jer 34:15 You recently repented and did what was right in my eyes by proclaiming liberty, each to his neighbor,
and you made a covenant before me in the house that is called by my name,
Jer 34:16 but then you turned around and profaned my name when each of you took back his male and female
slaves, whom you had set free according to their desire, and you brought them into subjection to be your slaves.
Jer 34:17 "Therefore, thus says the LORD: You have not obeyed me by proclaiming liberty, every one to his
brother and to his neighbor; behold, I proclaim to you liberty to the sword, to pestilence, and to famine, declares
the LORD. I will make you a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth.
Jer 34:18 And the men who transgressed my covenant and did not keep the terms of the covenant that they
made before me, I will make them like the calf that they cut in two and passed between its partsJer 34:19 the officials of Judah, the officials of Jerusalem, the eunuchs, the priests, and all the people of the
land who passed between the parts of the calf.
Jer 34:20 And I will give them into the hand of their enemies and into the hand of those who seek their lives.
Their dead bodies shall be food for the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth.
Jer 34:21 And Zedekiah king of Judah and his officials I will give into the hand of their enemies and into the
hand of those who seek their lives, into the hand of the army of the king of Babylon which has withdrawn from
you.
Jer 34:22 Behold, I will command, declares the LORD, and will bring them back to this city. And they will fight
against it and take it and burn it with fire. I will make the cities of Judah a desolation without inhabitant."
Jer 35:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of
Judah:
Jer 35:2 "Go to the house of the Rechabites and speak with them and bring them to the house of the LORD,
into one of the chambers; then offer them wine to drink."
Jer 35:3 So I took Jaazaniah the son of Jeremiah, son of Habazziniah and his brothers and all his sons and the
whole house of the Rechabites.
Jer 35:4 I brought them to the house of the LORD into the chamber of the sons of Hanan the son of Igdaliah, the
man of God, which was near the chamber of the officials, above the chamber of Maaseiah the son of Shallum,
keeper of the threshold.
Jer 35:5 Then I set before the Rechabites pitchers full of wine, and cups, and I said to them, "Drink wine."
Jer 35:6 But they answered, "We will drink no wine, for Jonadab the son of Rechab, our father, commanded us,
'You shall not drink wine, neither you nor your sons forever.
Jer 35:7 You shall not build a house; you shall not sow seed; you shall not plant or have a vineyard; but you
shall live in tents all your days, that you may live many days in the land where you sojourn.'
Jer 35:8 We have obeyed the voice of Jonadab the son of Rechab, our father, in all that he commanded us, to
drink no wine all our days, ourselves, our wives, our sons, or our daughters,
Jer 35:9 and not to build houses to dwell in. We have no vineyard or field or seed,
Jer 35:10 but we have lived in tents and have obeyed and done all that Jonadab our father commanded us.
Jer 35:11 But when Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up against the land, we said, 'Come, and let us go
to Jerusalem for fear of the army of the Chaldeans and the army of the Syrians.' So we are living in Jerusalem."
Jer 35:12 Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jer 35:13 "Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Go and say to the people of Judah and the
inhabitants of Jerusalem, Will you not receive instruction and listen to my words? declares the LORD.
Jer 35:14 The command that Jonadab the son of Rechab gave to his sons, to drink no wine, has been kept, and
they drink none to this day, for they have obeyed their father's command. I have spoken to you persistently, but
you have not listened to me.
Jer 35:15 I have sent to you all my servants the prophets, sending them persistently, saying, 'Turn now every
one of you from his evil way, and amend your deeds, and do not go after other gods to serve them, and then you
shall dwell in the land that I gave to you and your fathers.' But you did not incline your ear or listen to me.
Jer 35:16 The sons of Jonadab the son of Rechab have kept the command that their father gave them, but this
people has not obeyed me.
Jer 35:17 Therefore, thus says the LORD, the God of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I am bringing upon
Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the disaster that I have pronounced against them, because I have
spoken to them and they have not listened, I have called to them and they have not answered."
Jer 35:18 But to the house of the Rechabites Jeremiah said, "Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel:
Because you have obeyed the command of Jonadab your father and kept all his precepts and done all that he
commanded you,
Jer 35:19 therefore thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Jonadab the son of Rechab shall never lack
a man to stand before me."
Jer 36:1 In the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, this word came to Jeremiah from the
LORD:Jer 36:2 "Take a scroll and write on it all the words that I have spoken to you against Israel and Judah and all
the nations, from the day I spoke to you, from the days of Josiah until today.
Jer 36:3 It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the disaster that I intend to do to them, so that every one
may turn from his evil way, and that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin."
Jer 36:4 Then Jeremiah called Baruch the son of Neriah, and Baruch wrote on a scroll at the dictation of
Jeremiah all the words of the LORD that he had spoken to him.
Jer 36:5 And Jeremiah ordered Baruch, saying, "I am banned from going to the house of the LORD,
Jer 36:6 so you are to go, and on a day of fasting in the hearing of all the people in the LORD's house you shall
read the words of the LORD from the scroll that you have written at my dictation. You shall read them also in the
hearing of all the men of Judah who come out of their cities.
Jer 36:7 It may be that their plea for mercy will come before the LORD, and that every one will turn from his evil
way, for great is the anger and wrath that the LORD has pronounced against this people."
Jer 36:8 And Baruch the son of Neriah did all that Jeremiah the prophet ordered him about reading from the
scroll the words of the LORD in the LORD's house.
Jer 36:9 In the fifth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, in the ninth month, all the people in
Jerusalem and all the people who came from the cities of Judah to Jerusalem proclaimed a fast before the
LORD.
Jer 36:10 Then, in the hearing of all the people, Baruch read the words of Jeremiah from the scroll, in the house
of the LORD, in the chamber of Gemariah the son of Shaphan the secretary, which was in the upper court, at the
entry of the New Gate of the LORD's house.
Jer 36:11 When Micaiah the son of Gemariah, son of Shaphan, heard all the words of the LORD from the scroll,
Jer 36:12 he went down to the king's house, into the secretary's chamber, and all the officials were sitting there:
Elishama the secretary, Delaiah the son of Shemaiah, Elnathan the son of Achbor, Gemariah the son of
Shaphan, Zedekiah the son of Hananiah, and all the officials.
Jer 36:13 And Micaiah told them all the words that he had heard, when Baruch read the scroll in the hearing of
the people.
Jer 36:14 Then all the officials sent Jehudi the son of Nethaniah, son of Shelemiah, son of Cushi, to say to
Baruch, "Take in your hand the scroll that you read in the hearing of the people, and come." So Baruch the son
of Neriah took the scroll in his hand and came to them.
Jer 36:15 And they said to him, "Sit down and read it." So Baruch read it to them.
Jer 36:16 When they heard all the words, they turned one to another in fear. And they said to Baruch, "We must
report all these words to the king."
Jer 36:17 Then they asked Baruch, "Tell us, please, how did you write all these words? Was it at his dictation?"
Jer 36:18 Baruch answered them, "He dictated all these words to me, while I wrote them with ink on the scroll."
Jer 36:19 Then the officials said to Baruch, "Go and hide, you and Jeremiah, and let no one know where you
are."
Jer 36:20 So they went into the court to the king, having put the scroll in the chamber of Elishama the secretary,
and they reported all the words to the king.
Jer 36:21 Then the king sent Jehudi to get the scroll, and he took it from the chamber of Elishama the secretary.
And Jehudi read it to the king and all the officials who stood beside the king.
Jer 36:22 It was the ninth month, and the king was sitting in the winter house, and there was a fire burning in the
fire pot before him.
Jer 36:23 As Jehudi read three or four columns, the king would cut them off with a knife and throw them into the
fire in the fire pot, until the entire scroll was consumed in the fire that was in the fire pot.
Jer 36:24 Yet neither the king nor any of his servants who heard all these words was afraid, nor did they tear
their garments.
Jer 36:25 Even when Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah urged the king not to burn the scroll, he would not
listen to them.
Jer 36:26 And the king commanded Jerahmeel the king's son and Seraiah the son of Azriel and Shelemiah the
son of Abdeel to seize Baruch the secretary and Jeremiah the prophet, but the LORD hid them.
Jer 36:27 Now after the king had burned the scroll with the words that Baruch wrote at Jeremiah's dictation, the
word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jer 36:28 "Take another scroll and write on it all the former words that were in the first scroll, which Jehoiakim
the king of Judah has burned.
Jer 36:29 And concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah you shall say, 'Thus says the LORD, You have burned this
scroll, saying, "Why have you written in it that the king of Babylon will certainly come and destroy this land, and
will cut off from it man and beast?"
Jer 36:30 Therefore thus says the LORD concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah: He shall have none to sit on the
throne of David, and his dead body shall be cast out to the heat by day and the frost by night.Jer 36:31 And I will punish him and his offspring and his servants for their iniquity. I will bring upon them and
upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem and upon the people of Judah all the disaster that I have pronounced against
them, but they would not hear.'"
Jer 36:32 Then Jeremiah took another scroll and gave it to Baruch the scribe, the son of Neriah, who wrote on it
at the dictation of Jeremiah all the words of the scroll that Jehoiakim king of Judah had burned in the fire. And
many similar words were added to them.
Jer 37:1 Zedekiah the son of Josiah, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon made king in the land of Judah,
reigned instead of Coniah the son of Jehoiakim.
Jer 37:2 But neither he nor his servants nor the people of the land listened to the words of the LORD that he
spoke through Jeremiah the prophet.
Jer 37:3 King Zedekiah sent Jehucal the son of Shelemiah, and Zephaniah the priest, the son of Maaseiah, to
Jeremiah the prophet, saying, "Please pray for us to the LORD our God."
Jer 37:4 Now Jeremiah was still going in and out among the people, for he had not yet been put in prison.
Jer 37:5 The army of Pharaoh had come out of Egypt. And when the Chaldeans who were besieging Jerusalem
heard news about them, they withdrew from Jerusalem.
Jer 37:6 Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah the prophet:
Jer 37:7 "Thus says the LORD, God of Israel: Thus shall you say to the king of Judah who sent you to me to
inquire of me, 'Behold, Pharaoh's army that came to help you is about to return to Egypt, to its own land.
Jer 37:8 And the Chaldeans shall come back and fight against this city. They shall capture it and burn it with fire.
Jer 37:9 Thus says the LORD, Do not deceive yourselves, saying, "The Chaldeans will surely go away from us,"
for they will not go away.
Jer 37:10 For even if you should defeat the whole army of Chaldeans who are fighting against you, and there
remained of them only wounded men, every man in his tent, they would rise up and burn this city with fire.'"
Jer 37:11 Now when the Chaldean army had withdrawn from Jerusalem at the approach of Pharaoh's army,
Jer 37:12 Jeremiah set out from Jerusalem to go to the land of Benjamin to receive his portion there among the
people.
Jer 37:13 When he was at the Benjamin Gate, a sentry there named Irijah the son of Shelemiah, son of
Hananiah, seized Jeremiah the prophet, saying, "You are deserting to the Chaldeans."
Jer 37:14 And Jeremiah said, "It is a lie; I am not deserting to the Chaldeans." But Irijah would not listen to him,
and seized Jeremiah and brought him to the officials.
Jer 37:15 And the officials were enraged at Jeremiah, and they beat him and imprisoned him in the house of
Jonathan the secretary, for it had been made a prison.
Jer 37:16 When Jeremiah had come to the dungeon cells and remained there many days,
Jer 37:17 King Zedekiah sent for him and received him. The king questioned him secretly in his house and said,
"Is there any word from the LORD?" Jeremiah said, "There is." Then he said, "You shall be delivered into the
hand of the king of Babylon."
Jer 37:18 Jeremiah also said to King Zedekiah, "What wrong have I done to you or your servants or this people,
that you have put me in prison?
Jer 37:19 Where are your prophets who prophesied to you, saying, 'The king of Babylon will not come against
you and against this land'?
Jer 37:20 Now hear, please, O my lord the king: let my humble plea come before you and do not send me back
to the house of Jonathan the secretary, lest I die there."
Jer 37:21 So King Zedekiah gave orders, and they committed Jeremiah to the court of the guard. And a loaf of
bread was given him daily from the bakers' street, until all the bread of the city was gone. So Jeremiah remained
in the court of the guard.
Jer 38:1 Now Shephatiah the son of Mattan, Gedaliah the son of Pashhur, Jucal the son of Shelemiah, and
Pashhur the son of Malchiah heard the words that Jeremiah was saying to all the people,
Jer 38:2 "Thus says the LORD: He who stays in this city shall die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence,
but he who goes out to the Chaldeans shall live. He shall have his life as a prize of war, and live.
Jer 38:3 Thus says the LORD: This city shall surely be given into the hand of the army of the king of Babylon
and be taken."
Jer 38:4 Then the officials said to the king, "Let this man be put to death, for he is weakening the hands of the
soldiers who are left in this city, and the hands of all the people, by speaking such words to them. For this man is
not seeking the welfare of this people, but their harm."
Jer 38:5 King Zedekiah said, "Behold, he is in your hands, for the king can do nothing against you."
Jer 38:6 So they took Jeremiah and cast him into the cistern of Malchiah, the king's son, which was in the court
of the guard, letting Jeremiah down by ropes. And there was no water in the cistern, but only mud, and Jeremiah
sank in the mud.
Jer 38:7 When Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, a eunuch who was in the king's house, heard that they had putJeremiah into the cistern- the king was sitting in the Benjamin GateJer 38:8 Ebed-melech went from the king's house and said to the king,
Jer 38:9 "My lord the king, these men have done evil in all that they did to Jeremiah the prophet by casting him
into the cistern, and he will die there of hunger, for there is no bread left in the city."
Jer 38:10 Then the king commanded Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, "Take three men with you from here, and lift
Jeremiah the prophet out of the cistern before he dies."
Jer 38:11 So Ebed-melech took the men with him and went to the house of the king, to a wardrobe in the
storehouse, and took from there old rags and worn-out clothes, which he let down to Jeremiah in the cistern by
ropes.
Jer 38:12 Then Ebed-melech the Ethiopian said to Jeremiah, "Put the rags and clothes between your armpits
and the ropes." Jeremiah did so.
Jer 38:13 Then they drew Jeremiah up with ropes and lifted him out of the cistern. And Jeremiah remained in
the court of the guard.
Jer 38:14 King Zedekiah sent for Jeremiah the prophet and received him at the third entrance of the temple of
the LORD. The king said to Jeremiah, "I will ask you a question; hide nothing from me."
Jer 38:15 Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, "If I tell you, will you not surely put me to death? And if I give you counsel,
you will not listen to me."
Jer 38:16 Then King Zedekiah swore secretly to Jeremiah, "As the LORD lives, who made our souls, I will not
put you to death or deliver you into the hand of these men who seek your life."
Jer 38:17 Then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, "Thus says the LORD, the God of hosts, the God of Israel: If you will
surrender to the officials of the king of Babylon, then your life shall be spared, and this city shall not be burned
with fire, and you and your house shall live.
Jer 38:18 But if you do not surrender to the officials of the king of Babylon, then this city shall be given into the
hand of the Chaldeans, and they shall burn it with fire, and you shall not escape from their hand."
Jer 38:19 King Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, "I am afraid of the Judeans who have deserted to the Chaldeans,
lest I be handed over to them and they deal cruelly with me."
Jer 38:20 Jeremiah said, "You shall not be given to them. Obey now the voice of the LORD in what I say to you,
and it shall be well with you, and your life shall be spared.
Jer 38:21 But if you refuse to surrender, this is the vision which the LORD has shown to me:
Jer 38:22 Behold, all the women left in the house of the king of Judah were being led out to the officials of the
king of Babylon and were saying, "' Your trusted friends have deceived you and prevailed against you; now that
your feet are sunk in the mud, they turn away from you.'
Jer 38:23 All your wives and your sons shall be led out to the Chaldeans, and you yourself shall not escape
from their hand, but shall be seized by the king of Babylon, and this city shall be burned with fire."
Jer 38:24 Then Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, "Let no one know of these words, and you shall not die.
Jer 38:25 If the officials hear that I have spoken with you and come to you and say to you, 'Tell us what you said
to the king and what the king said to you; hide nothing from us and we will not put you to death,'
Jer 38:26 then you shall say to them, 'I made a humble plea to the king that he would not send me back to the
house of Jonathan to die there.'"
Jer 38:27 Then all the officials came to Jeremiah and asked him, and he answered them as the king had
instructed him. So they stopped speaking with him, for the conversation had not been overheard.
Jer 38:28 And Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard until the day that Jerusalem was taken.
Jer 39:1 In the ninth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and
all his army came against Jerusalem and besieged it.
Jer 39:2 In the eleventh year of Zedekiah, in the fourth month, on the ninth day of the month, a breach was
made in the city.
Jer 39:3 Then all the officials of the king of Babylon came and sat in the middle gate: Nergal-sar-ezer, Samgarnebu, Sar-sekim the Rab-saris, Nergal-sar-ezer the Rab-mag, with all the rest of the officers of the king of
Babylon.
Jer 39:4 When Zedekiah king of Judah and all the soldiers saw them, they fled, going out of the city at night by
way of the king's garden through the gate between the two walls; and they went toward the Arabah.
Jer 39:5 But the army of the Chaldeans pursued them and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho. And when
they had taken him, they brought him up to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, at Riblah, in the land of Hamath;
and he passed sentence on him.
Jer 39:6 The king of Babylon slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah at Riblah before his eyes, and the king of
Babylon slaughtered all the nobles of Judah.
Jer 39:7 He put out the eyes of Zedekiah and bound him in chains to take him to Babylon.
Jer 39:8 The Chaldeans burned the king's house and the house of the people, and broke down the walls of
Jerusalem.Jer 39:9 Then Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, carried into exile to Babylon the rest of the people who
were left in the city, those who had deserted to him, and the people who remained.
Jer 39:10 Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, left in the land of Judah some of the poor people who owned
nothing, and gave them vineyards and fields at the same time.
Jer 39:11 Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon gave command concerning Jeremiah through Nebuzaradan, the
captain of the guard, saying,
Jer 39:12 "Take him, look after him well, and do him no harm, but deal with him as he tells you."
Jer 39:13 So Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard, Nebushazban the Rab-saris, Nergal-sar-ezer the Rab-mag,
and all the chief officers of the king of Babylon
Jer 39:14 sent and took Jeremiah from the court of the guard. They entrusted him to Gedaliah the son of
Ahikam, son of Shaphan, that he should take him home. So he lived among the people.
Jer 39:15 The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah while he was shut up in the court of the guard:
Jer 39:16 "Go, and say to Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold,
I will fulfill my words against this city for harm and not for good, and they shall be accomplished before you on
that day.
Jer 39:17 But I will deliver you on that day, declares the LORD, and you shall not be given into the hand of the
men of whom you are afraid.
Jer 39:18 For I will surely save you, and you shall not fall by the sword, but you shall have your life as a prize of
war, because you have put your trust in me, declares the LORD.'"
Jer 40:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD after Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had let
him go from Ramah, when he took him bound in chains along with all the captives of Jerusalem and Judah who
were being exiled to Babylon.
Jer 40:2 The captain of the guard took Jeremiah and said to him, "The LORD your God pronounced this
disaster against this place.
Jer 40:3 The LORD has brought it about, and has done as he said. Because you sinned against the LORD and
did not obey his voice, this thing has come upon you.
Jer 40:4 Now, behold, I release you today from the chains on your hands. If it seems good to you to come with
me to Babylon, come, and I will look after you well, but if it seems wrong to you to come with me to Babylon, do
not come. See, the whole land is before you; go wherever you think it good and right to go.
Jer 40:5 If you remain, then return to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, son of Shaphan, whom the king of Babylon
appointed governor of the cities of Judah, and dwell with him among the people. Or go wherever you think it right
to go." So the captain of the guard gave him an allowance of food and a present, and let him go.
Jer 40:6 Then Jeremiah went to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, at Mizpah, and lived with him among the people
who were left in the land.
Jer 40:7 When all the captains of the forces in the open country and their men heard that the king of Babylon
had appointed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam governor in the land and had committed to him men, women, and
children, those of the poorest of the land who had not been taken into exile to Babylon,
Jer 40:8 they went to Gedaliah at Mizpah- Ishmael the son of Netha-niah, Johanan the son of Kareah, Seraiah
the son of Tanhumeth, the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, Jezaniah the son of the Maacathite, they and their
men.
Jer 40:9 Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, son of Shaphan, swore to them and their men, saying, "Do not be afraid to
serve the Chaldeans. Dwell in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you.
Jer 40:10 As for me, I will dwell at Mizpah, to represent you before the Chaldeans who will come to us. But as
for you, gather wine and summer fruits and oil, and store them in your vessels, and dwell in your cities that you
have taken."
Jer 40:11 Likewise, when all the Judeans who were in Moab and among the Ammonites and in Edom and in
other lands heard that the king of Babylon had left a remnant in Judah and had appointed Gedaliah the son of
Ahikam, son of Shaphan, as governor over them,
Jer 40:12 then all the Judeans returned from all the places to which they had been driven and came to the land
of Judah, to Gedaliah at Mizpah. And they gathered wine and summer fruits in great abundance.
Jer 40:13 Now Johanan the son of Kareah and all the leaders of the forces in the open country came to
Gedaliah at Mizpah
Jer 40:14 and said to him, "Do you know that Baalis the king of the Ammonites has sent Ishmael the son of
Nethaniah to take your life?" But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam would not believe them.
Jer 40:15 Then Johanan the son of Kareah spoke secretly to Gedaliah at Mizpah, "Please let me go and strike
down Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and no one will know it. Why should he take your life, so that all the
Judeans who are gathered about you would be scattered, and the remnant of Judah would perish?"
Jer 40:16 But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam said to Johanan the son of Kareah, "You shall not do this thing, for
you are speaking falsely of Ishmael."Jer 41:1 In the seventh month, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, son of Elishama, of the royal family, one of the
chief officers of the king, came with ten men to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, at Mizpah. As they ate bread
together there at Mizpah,
Jer 41:2 Ishmael the son of Nethaniah and the ten men with him rose up and struck down Gedaliah the son of
Ahikam, son of Shaphan, with the sword, and killed him, whom the king of Babylon had appointed governor in
the land.
Jer 41:3 Ishmael also struck down all the Judeans who were with Gedaliah at Mizpah, and the Chaldean
soldiers who happened to be there.
Jer 41:4 On the day after the murder of Gedaliah, before anyone knew of it,
Jer 41:5 eighty men arrived from Shechem and Shiloh and Samaria, with their beards shaved and their clothes
torn, and their bodies gashed, bringing grain offerings and incense to present at the temple of the LORD.
Jer 41:6 And Ishmael the son of Nethaniah came out from Mizpah to meet them, weeping as he came. As he
met them, he said to them, "Come in to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam."
Jer 41:7 When they came into the city, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah and the men with him slaughtered them
and cast them into a cistern.
Jer 41:8 But there were ten men among them who said to Ishmael, "Do not put us to death, for we have stores
of wheat, barley, oil, and honey hidden in the fields." So he refrained and did not put them to death with their
companions.
Jer 41:9 Now the cistern into which Ishmael had thrown all the bodies of the men whom he had struck down
along with Gedaliah was the large cistern that King Asa had made for defense against Baasha king of Israel;
Ishmael the son of Nethaniah filled it with the slain.
Jer 41:10 Then Ishmael took captive all the rest of the people who were in Mizpah, the king's daughters and all
the people who were left at Mizpah, whom Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, had committed to Gedaliah
the son of Ahikam. Ishmael the son of Nethaniah took them captive and set out to cross over to the Ammonites.
Jer 41:11 But when Johanan the son of Kareah and all the leaders of the forces with him heard of all the evil
that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had done,
Jer 41:12 they took all their men and went to fight against Ishmael the son of Nethaniah. They came upon him
at the great pool that is in Gibeon.
Jer 41:13 And when all the people who were with Ishmael saw Johanan the son of Kareah and all the leaders of
the forces with him, they rejoiced.
Jer 41:14 So all the people whom Ishmael had carried away captive from Mizpah turned around and came back,
and went to Johanan the son of Kareah.
Jer 41:15 But Ishmael the son of Nethaniah escaped from Johanan with eight men, and went to the Ammonites.
Jer 41:16 Then Johanan the son of Kareah and all the leaders of the forces with him took from Mizpah all the
rest of the people whom he had recovered from Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, after he had struck down
Gedaliah the son of Ahikam- soldiers, women, children, and eunuchs, whom Johanan brought back from
Gibeon.
Jer 41:17 And they went and stayed at Geruth Chimham near Bethlehem, intending to go to Egypt
Jer 41:18 because of the Chaldeans. For they were afraid of them, because Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had
struck down Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, whom the king of Babylon had made governor over the land.
Jer 42:1 Then all the commanders of the forces, and Johanan the son of Kareah and Jezaniah the son of
Hoshaiah, and all the people from the least to the greatest, came near
Jer 42:2 and said to Jeremiah the prophet, "Let our plea for mercy come before you, and pray to the LORD your
God for us, for all this remnant- because we are left with but a few, as your eyes see usJer 42:3 that the LORD your God may show us the way we should go, and the thing that we should do."
Jer 42:4 Jeremiah the prophet said to them, "I have heard you. Behold, I will pray to the LORD your God
according to your request, and whatever the LORD answers you I will tell you. I will keep nothing back from you."
Jer 42:5 Then they said to Jeremiah, "May the LORD be a true and faithful witness against us if we do not act
according to all the word with which the LORD your God sends you to us.
Jer 42:6 Whether it is good or bad, we will obey the voice of the LORD our God to whom we are sending you,
that it may be well with us when we obey the voice of the LORD our God."
Jer 42:7 At the end of ten days the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah.
Jer 42:8 Then he summoned Johanan the son of Kareah and all the commanders of the forces who were with
him, and all the people from the least to the greatest,
Jer 42:9 and said to them, "Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, to whom you sent me to present your plea
for mercy before him:
Jer 42:10 If you will remain in this land, then I will build you up and not pull you down; I will plant you, and not
pluck you up; for I relent of the disaster that I did to you.
Jer 42:11 Do not fear the king of Babylon, of whom you are afraid. Do not fear him, declares the LORD, for I amwith you, to save you and to deliver you from his hand.
Jer 42:12 I will grant you mercy, that he may have mercy on you and let you remain in your own land.
Jer 42:13 But if you say, 'We will not remain in this land,' disobeying the voice of the LORD your God
Jer 42:14 and saying, 'No, we will go to the land of Egypt, where we shall not see war or hear the sound of the
trumpet or be hungry for bread, and we will dwell there,'
Jer 42:15 then hear the word of the LORD, O remnant of Judah. Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of
Israel: If you set your faces to enter Egypt and go to live there,
Jer 42:16 then the sword that you fear shall overtake you there in the land of Egypt, and the famine of which you
are afraid shall follow close after you to Egypt, and there you shall die.
Jer 42:17 All the men who set their faces to go to Egypt to live there shall die by the sword, by famine, and by
pestilence. They shall have no remnant or survivor from the disaster that I will bring upon them.
Jer 42:18 "For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: As my anger and my wrath were poured out on
the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so my wrath will be poured out on you when you go to Egypt. You shall become an
execration, a horror, a curse, and a taunt. You shall see this place no more.
Jer 42:19 The LORD has said to you, O remnant of Judah, 'Do not go to Egypt.' Know for a certainty that I have
warned you this day
Jer 42:20 that you have gone astray at the cost of your lives. For you sent me to the LORD your God, saying,
'Pray for us to the LORD our God, and whatever the LORD our God says declare to us and we will do it.'
Jer 42:21 And I have this day declared it to you, but you have not obeyed the voice of the LORD your God in
anything that he sent me to tell you.
Jer 42:22 Now therefore know for a certainty that you shall die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence in the
place where you desire to go to live."
Jer 43:1 When Jeremiah finished speaking to all the people all these words of the LORD their God, with which
the LORD their God had sent him to them,
Jer 43:2 Azariah the son of Hoshaiah and Johanan the son of Kareah and all the insolent men said to Jeremiah,
"You are telling a lie. The LORD our God did not send you to say, 'Do not go to Egypt to live there,'
Jer 43:3 but Baruch the son of Neriah has set you against us, to deliver us into the hand of the Chaldeans, that
they may kill us or take us into exile in Babylon."
Jer 43:4 So Johanan the son of Kareah and all the commanders of the forces and all the people did not obey
the voice of the LORD, to remain in the land of Judah.
Jer 43:5 But Johanan the son of Kareah and all the commanders of the forces took all the remnant of Judah
who had returned to live in the land of Judah from all the nations to which they had been drivenJer 43:6 the men, the women, the children, the princesses, and every person whom Nebuzaradan the captain of
the guard had left with Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, son of Shaphan; also Jeremiah the prophet and Baruch the
son of Neriah.
Jer 43:7 And they came into the land of Egypt, for they did not obey the voice of the LORD. And they arrived at
Tahpanhes.
Jer 43:8 Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah in Tahpanhes:
Jer 43:9 "Take in your hands large stones and hide them in the mortar in the pavement that is at the entrance to
Pharaoh's palace in Tahpanhes, in the sight of the men of Judah,
Jer 43:10 and say to them, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will send and take
Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, my servant, and I will set his throne above these stones that I have
hidden, and he will spread his royal canopy over them.
Jer 43:11 He shall come and strike the land of Egypt, giving over to the pestilence those who are doomed to the
pestilence, to captivity those who are doomed to captivity, and to the sword those who are doomed to the sword.
Jer 43:12 I shall kindle a fire in the temples of the gods of Egypt, and he shall burn them and carry them away
captive. And he shall clean the land of Egypt as a shepherd cleans his cloak of vermin, and he shall go away
from there in peace.
Jer 43:13 He shall break the obelisks of Heliopolis, which is in the land of Egypt, and the temples of the gods of
Egypt he shall burn with fire.'"
Jer 44:1 The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the Judeans who lived in the land of Egypt, at Migdol,
at Tahpanhes, at Memphis, and in the land of Pathros,
Jer 44:2 "Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: You have seen all the disaster that I brought upon
Jerusalem and upon all the cities of Judah. Behold, this day they are a desolation, and no one dwells in them,
Jer 44:3 because of the evil that they committed, provoking me to anger, in that they went to make offerings and
serve other gods that they knew not, neither they, nor you, nor your fathers.
Jer 44:4 Yet I persistently sent to you all my servants the prophets, saying, 'Oh, do not do this abomination that I
hate!'
Jer 44:5 But they did not listen or incline their ear, to turn from their evil and make no offerings to other gods.Jer 44:6 Therefore my wrath and my anger were poured out and kindled in the cities of Judah and in the streets
of Jerusalem, and they became a waste and a desolation, as at this day.
Jer 44:7 And now thus says the Lord GOD of hosts, the God of Israel: Why do you commit this great evil against
yourselves, to cut off from you man and woman, infant and child, from the midst of Judah, leaving you no
remnant?
Jer 44:8 Why do you provoke me to anger with the works of your hands, making offerings to other gods in the
land of Egypt where you have come to live, so that you may be cut off and become a curse and a taunt among
all the nations of the earth?
Jer 44:9 Have you forgotten the evil of your fathers, the evil of the kings of Judah, the evil of their wives, your
own evil, and the evil of your wives, which they committed in the land of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem?
Jer 44:10 They have not humbled themselves even to this day, nor have they feared, nor walked in my law and
my statutes that I set before you and before your fathers.
Jer 44:11 "Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will set my face against you for
harm, to cut off all Judah.
Jer 44:12 I will take the remnant of Judah who have set their faces to come to the land of Egypt to live, and they
shall all be consumed. In the land of Egypt they shall fall; by the sword and by famine they shall be consumed.
From the least to the greatest, they shall die by the sword and by famine, and they shall become an oath, a
horror, a curse, and a taunt.
Jer 44:13 I will punish those who dwell in the land of Egypt, as I have punished Jerusalem, with the sword, with
famine, and with pestilence,
Jer 44:14 so that none of the remnant of Judah who have come to live in the land of Egypt shall escape or
survive or return to the land of Judah, to which they desire to return to dwell there. For they shall not return,
except some fugitives."
Jer 44:15 Then all the men who knew that their wives had made offerings to other gods, and all the women who
stood by, a great assembly, all the people who lived in Pathros in the land of Egypt, answered Jeremiah:
Jer 44:16 "As for the word that you have spoken to us in the name of the LORD, we will not listen to you.
Jer 44:17 But we will do everything that we have vowed, make offerings to the queen of heaven and pour out
drink offerings to her, as we did, both we and our fathers, our kings and our officials, in the cities of Judah and in
the streets of Jerusalem. For then we had plenty of food, and prospered, and saw no disaster.
Jer 44:18 But since we left off making offerings to the queen of heaven and pouring out drink offerings to her,
we have lacked everything and have been consumed by the sword and by famine."
Jer 44:19 And the women said, "When we made offerings to the queen of heaven and poured out drink offerings
to her, was it without our husbands' approval that we made cakes for her bearing her image and poured out
drink offerings to her?"
Jer 44:20 Then Jeremiah said to all the people, men and women, all the people who had given him this answer:
Jer 44:21 "As for the offerings that you offered in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, you and
your fathers, your kings and your officials, and the people of the land, did not the LORD remember them? Did it
not come into his mind?
Jer 44:22 The LORD could no longer bear your evil deeds and the abominations that you committed. Therefore
your land has become a desolation and a waste and a curse, without inhabitant, as it is this day.
Jer 44:23 It is because you made offerings and because you sinned against the LORD and did not obey the
voice of the LORD or walk in his law and in his statutes and in his testimonies that this disaster has happened to
you, as at this day."
Jer 44:24 Jeremiah said to all the people and all the women, "Hear the word of the LORD, all you of Judah who
are in the land of Egypt.
Jer 44:25 Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: You and your wives have declared with your mouths,
and have fulfilled it with your hands, saying, 'We will surely perform our vows that we have made, to make
offerings to the queen of heaven and to pour out drink offerings to her.' Then confirm your vows and perform
your vows!
Jer 44:26 Therefore hear the word of the LORD, all you of Judah who dwell in the land of Egypt: Behold, I have
sworn by my great name, says the LORD, that my name shall no more be invoked by the mouth of any man of
Judah in all the land of Egypt, saying, 'As the Lord GOD lives.'
Jer 44:27 Behold, I am watching over them for disaster and not for good. All the men of Judah who are in the
land of Egypt shall be consumed by the sword and by famine, until there is an end of them.
Jer 44:28 And those who escape the sword shall return from the land of Egypt to the land of Judah, few in
number; and all the remnant of Judah, who came to the land of Egypt to live, shall know whose word will stand,
mine or theirs.
Jer 44:29 This shall be the sign to you, declares the LORD, that I will punish you in this place, in order that you
may know that my words will surely stand against you for harm:Jer 44:30 Thus says the LORD, behold, I will give Pharaoh Hophra king of Egypt into the hand of his enemies
and into the hand of those who seek his life, as I gave Zedekiah king of Judah into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar
king of Babylon, who was his enemy and sought his life."
Jer 45:1 The word that Jeremiah the prophet spoke to Baruch the son of Neriah, when he wrote these words in
a book at the dictation of Jeremiah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah:
Jer 45:2 "Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, to you, O Baruch:
Jer 45:3 You said, 'Woe is me! For the LORD has added sorrow to my pain. I am weary with my groaning, and I
find no rest.'
Jer 45:4 Thus shall you say to him, Thus says the LORD: Behold, what I have built I am breaking down, and
what I have planted I am plucking up- that is, the whole land.
Jer 45:5 And do you seek great things for yourself? Seek them not, for behold, I am bringing disaster upon all
flesh, declares the LORD. But I will give you your life as a prize of war in all places to which you may go."
Jer 46:1 The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning the nations.
Jer 46:2 About Egypt. Concerning the army of Pharaoh Neco, king of Egypt, which was by the river Euphrates
at Carchemish and which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon defeated in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of
Josiah, king of Judah:
Jer 46:3 "Prepare buckler and shield, and advance for battle!
Jer 46:4 Harness the horses; mount, O horsemen! Take your stations with your helmets, polish your spears, put
on your armor!
Jer 46:5 Why have I seen it? They are dismayed and have turned backward. Their warriors are beaten down
and have fled in haste; they look not back- terror on every side! declares the LORD.
Jer 46:6 The swift cannot flee away, nor the warrior escape; in the north by the river Euphrates they have
stumbled and fallen.
Jer 46:7 "Who is this, rising like the Nile, like rivers whose waters surge?
Jer 46:8 Egypt rises like the Nile, like rivers whose waters surge. He said, 'I will rise, I will cover the earth, I will
destroy cities and their inhabitants.'
Jer 46:9 Advance, O horses, and rage, O chariots! Let the warriors go out: men of Cush and Put who handle the
shield, men of Lud, skilled in handling the bow.
Jer 46:10 That day is the day of the Lord GOD of hosts, a day of vengeance, to avenge himself on his foes. The
sword shall devour and be sated and drink its fill of their blood. For the Lord GOD of hosts holds a sacrifice in the
north country by the river Euphrates.
Jer 46:11 Go up to Gilead, and take balm, O virgin daughter of Egypt! In vain you have used many medicines;
there is no healing for you.
Jer 46:12 The nations have heard of your shame, and the earth is full of your cry; for warrior has stumbled
against warrior; they have both fallen together."
Jer 46:13 The word that the LORD spoke to Jeremiah the prophet about the coming of Nebuchadnezzar king of
Babylon to strike the land of Egypt:
Jer 46:14 "Declare in Egypt, and proclaim in Migdol; proclaim in Memphis and Tahpanhes; Say, 'Stand ready
and be prepared, for the sword shall devour around you.'
Jer 46:15 Why are your mighty ones face down? They do not stand because the LORD thrust them down.
Jer 46:16 He made many stumble, and they fell, and they said one to another, 'Arise, and let us go back to our
own people and to the land of our birth, because of the sword of the oppressor.'
Jer 46:17 Call the name of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, 'Noisy one who lets the hour go by.'
Jer 46:18 "As I live, declares the King, whose name is the LORD of hosts, like Tabor among the mountains and
like Carmel by the sea, shall one come.
Jer 46:19 Prepare yourselves baggage for exile, O inhabitants of Egypt! For Memphis shall become a waste, a
ruin, without inhabitant.
Jer 46:20 "A beautiful heifer is Egypt, but a biting fly from the north has come upon her.
Jer 46:21 Even her hired soldiers in her midst are like fattened calves; yes, they have turned and fled together;
they did not stand, for the day of their calamity has come upon them, the time of their punishment.
Jer 46:22 "She makes a sound like a serpent gliding away; for her enemies march in force and come against
her with axes like those who fell trees.
Jer 46:23 They shall cut down her forest, declares the LORD, though it is impenetrable, because they are more
numerous than locusts; they are without number.
Jer 46:24 The daughter of Egypt shall be put to shame; she shall be delivered into the hand of a people from the
north."
Jer 46:25 The LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, said: "Behold, I am bringing punishment upon Amon of Thebes,
and Pharaoh and Egypt and her gods and her kings, upon Pharaoh and those who trust in him.
Jer 46:26 I will deliver them into the hand of those who seek their life, into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king ofBabylon and his officers. Afterward Egypt shall be inhabited as in the days of old, declares the LORD.
Jer 46:27 "But fear not, O Jacob my servant, nor be dismayed, O Israel, for behold, I will save you from far
away, and your offspring from the land of their captivity. Jacob shall return and have quiet and ease, and none
shall make him afraid.
Jer 46:28 Fear not, O Jacob my servant, declares the LORD, for I am with you. I will make a full end of all the
nations to which I have driven you, but of you I will not make a full end. I will discipline you in just measure, and I
will by no means leave you unpunished."
Jer 47:1 The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning the Philistines, before Pharaoh
struck down Gaza.
Jer 47:2 "Thus says the LORD: Behold, waters are rising out of the north, and shall become an overflowing
torrent; they shall overflow the land and all that fills it, the city and those who dwell in it. Men shall cry out, and
every inhabitant of the land shall wail.
Jer 47:3 At the noise of the stamping of the hoofs of his stallions, at the rushing of his chariots, at the rumbling
of their wheels, the fathers look not back to their children, so feeble are their hands,
Jer 47:4 because of the day that is coming to destroy all the Philistines, to cut off from Tyre and Sidon every
helper that remains. For the LORD is destroying the Philistines, the remnant of the coastland of Caphtor.
Jer 47:5 Baldness has come upon Gaza; Ashkelon has perished. O remnant of their valley, how long will you
gash yourselves?
Jer 47:6 Ah, sword of the LORD! How long till you are quiet? Put yourself into your scabbard; rest and be still!
Jer 47:7 How can it be quiet when the LORD has given it a charge? Against Ashkelon and against the seashore
he has appointed it."
Jer 48:1 Concerning Moab.Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: "Woe to Nebo, for it is laid waste!
Kiriathaim is put to shame, it is taken; the fortress is put to shame and broken down;
Jer 48:2 the renown of Moab is no more. In Heshbon they planned disaster against her: 'Come, let us cut her off
from being a nation!' You also, O Madmen, shall be brought to silence; the sword shall pursue you.
Jer 48:3 "Hark! A cry from Horonaim, 'Desolation and great destruction!'
Jer 48:4 Moab is destroyed; her little ones have made a cry.
Jer 48:5 For at the ascent of Luhith they go up weeping; for at the descent of Horonaim they have heard the
distressed cry of destruction.
Jer 48:6 Flee! Save yourselves! You will be like a juniper in the desert!
Jer 48:7 For, because you trusted in your works and your treasures, you also shall be taken; and Chemosh shall
go into exile with his priests and his officials.
Jer 48:8 The destroyer shall come upon every city, and no city shall escape; the valley shall perish, and the
plain shall be destroyed, as the LORD has spoken.
Jer 48:9 "Give wings to Moab, for she would fly away; her cities shall become a desolation, with no inhabitant in
them.
Jer 48:10 "Cursed is he who does the work of the LORD with slackness, and cursed is he who keeps back his
sword from bloodshed.
Jer 48:11 "Moab has been at ease from his youth and has settled on his dregs; he has not been emptied from
vessel to vessel, nor has he gone into exile; so his taste remains in him, and his scent is not changed.
Jer 48:12 "Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I shall send to him pourers who
will pour him, and empty his vessels and break his jars in pieces.
Jer 48:13 Then Moab shall be ashamed of Chemosh, as the house of Israel was ashamed of Bethel, their
confidence.
Jer 48:14 "How do you say, 'We are heroes and mighty men of war'?
Jer 48:15 The destroyer of Moab and his cities has come up, and the choicest of his young men have gone
down to slaughter, declares the King, whose name is the LORD of hosts.
Jer 48:16 The calamity of Moab is near at hand, and his affliction hastens swiftly.
Jer 48:17 Grieve for him, all you who are around him, and all who know his name; say, 'How the mighty scepter
is broken, the glorious staff.'
Jer 48:18 "Come down from your glory, and sit on the parched ground, O inhabitant of Dibon! For the destroyer
of Moab has come up against you; he has destroyed your strongholds.
Jer 48:19 Stand by the way and watch, O inhabitant of Aroer! Ask him who flees and her who escapes; say,
'What has happened?'
Jer 48:20 Moab is put to shame, for it is broken; wail and cry! Tell it beside the Arnon, that Moab is laid waste.
Jer 48:21 "Judgment has come upon the tableland, upon Holon, and Jahzah, and Mephaath,
Jer 48:22 and Dibon, and Nebo, and Beth-diblathaim,
Jer 48:23 and Kiriathaim, and Beth-gamul, and Beth-meon,
Jer 48:24 and Kerioth, and Bozrah, and all the cities of the land of Moab, far and near.Jer 48:25 The horn of Moab is cut off, and his arm is broken, declares the LORD.
Jer 48:26 "Make him drunk, because he magnified himself against the LORD, so that Moab shall wallow in his
vomit, and he too shall be held in derision.
Jer 48:27 Was not Israel a derision to you? Was he found among thieves, that whenever you spoke of him you
wagged your head?
Jer 48:28 "Leave the cities, and dwell in the rock, O inhabitants of Moab! Be like the dove that nests in the sides
of the mouth of a gorge.
Jer 48:29 We have heard of the pride of Moab- he is very proud- of his loftiness, his pride, and his arrogance,
and the haughtiness of his heart.
Jer 48:30 I know his insolence, declares the LORD; his boasts are false, his deeds are false.
Jer 48:31 Therefore I wail for Moab; I cry out for all Moab; for the men of Kir-hareseth I mourn.
Jer 48:32 More than for Jazer I weep for you, O vine of Sibmah! Your branches passed over the sea, reached to
the Sea of Jazer; on your summer fruits and your grapes the destroyer has fallen.
Jer 48:33 Gladness and joy have been taken away from the fruitful land of Moab; I have made the wine cease
from the wine presses; no one treads them with shouts of joy; the shouting is not the shout of joy.
Jer 48:34 "From the outcry at Heshbon even to Elealeh, as far as Jahaz they utter their voice, from Zoar to
Horonaim and Eglath-shelishiyah. For the waters of Nimrim also have become desolate.
Jer 48:35 And I will bring to an end in Moab, declares the LORD, him who offers sacrifice in the high place and
makes offerings to his god.
Jer 48:36 Therefore my heart moans for Moab like a flute, and my heart moans like a flute for the men of Kirhareseth. Therefore the riches they gained have perished.
Jer 48:37 "For every head is shaved and every beard cut off. On all the hands are gashes, and around the waist
is sackcloth.
Jer 48:38 On all the housetops of Moab and in the squares there is nothing but lamentation, for I have broken
Moab like a vessel for which no one cares, declares the LORD.
Jer 48:39 How it is broken! How they wail! How Moab has turned his back in shame! So Moab has become a
derision and a horror to all that are around him."
Jer 48:40 For thus says the LORD: "Behold, one shall fly swiftly like an eagle and spread his wings against
Moab;
Jer 48:41 the cities shall be taken and the strongholds seized. The heart of the warriors of Moab shall be in that
day like the heart of a woman in her birth pains;
Jer 48:42 Moab shall be destroyed and be no longer a people, because he magnified himself against the LORD.
Jer 48:43 Terror, pit, and snare are before you, O inhabitant of Moab! declares the LORD.
Jer 48:44 He who flees from the terror shall fall into the pit, and he who climbs out of the pit shall be caught in
the snare. For I will bring these things upon Moab, the year of their punishment, declares the LORD.
Jer 48:45 "In the shadow of Heshbon fugitives stop without strength, for fire came out from Heshbon, flame from
the house of Sihon; it has destroyed the forehead of Moab, the crown of the sons of tumult.
Jer 48:46 Woe to you, O Moab! The people of Chemosh are undone, for your sons have been taken captive,
and your daughters into captivity.
Jer 48:47 Yet I will restore the fortunes of Moab in the latter days, declares the LORD." Thus far is the judgment
on Moab.
Jer 49:1 Concerning the Ammonites.Thus says the LORD: "Has Israel no sons? Has he no heir? Why then has
Milcom dispossessed Gad, and his people settled in its cities?
Jer 49:2 Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will cause the battle cry to be
heard against Rabbah of the Ammonites; it shall become a desolate mound, and its villages shall be burned with
fire; then Israel shall dispossess those who dispossessed him, says the LORD.
Jer 49:3 "Wail, O Heshbon, for Ai is laid waste! Cry out, O daughters of Rabbah! put on sackcloth, lament, and
run to and fro among the hedges! For Milcom shall go into exile, with his priests and his officials.
Jer 49:4 Why do you boast of your valleys, O faithless daughter, who trusted in her treasures, saying, 'Who will
come against me?'
Jer 49:5 Behold, I will bring terror upon you, declares the Lord GOD of hosts, from all who are around you, and
you shall be driven out, every man straight before him, with none to gather the fugitives.
Jer 49:6 "But afterward I will restore the fortunes of the Ammonites, declares the LORD."
Jer 49:7 Concerning Edom. Thus says the LORD of hosts: "Is wisdom no more in Teman? Has counsel
perished from the prudent? Has their wisdom vanished?
Jer 49:8 Flee, turn back, dwell in the depths, O inhabitants of Dedan! For I will bring the calamity of Esau upon
him, the time when I punish him.
Jer 49:9 If grape-gatherers came to you, would they not leave gleanings? If thieves came by night, would they
not destroy only enough for themselves?Jer 49:10 But I have stripped Esau bare; I have uncovered his hiding places, and he is not able to conceal
himself. His children are destroyed, and his brothers, and his neighbors; and he is no more.
Jer 49:11 Leave your fatherless children; I will keep them alive; and let your widows trust in me."
Jer 49:12 For thus says the LORD: "If those who did not deserve to drink the cup must drink it, will you go
unpunished? You shall not go unpunished, but you must drink.
Jer 49:13 For I have sworn by myself, declares the LORD, that Bozrah shall become a horror, a taunt, a waste,
and a curse, and all her cities shall be perpetual wastes."
Jer 49:14 I have heard a message from the LORD, and an envoy has been sent among the nations: "Gather
yourselves together and come against her, and rise up for battle!
Jer 49:15 For behold, I will make you small among the nations, despised among mankind.
Jer 49:16 The horror you inspire has deceived you, and the pride of your heart, you who live in the clefts of the
rock, who hold the height of the hill. Though you make your nest as high as the eagle's, I will bring you down
from there, declares the LORD.
Jer 49:17 "Edom shall become a horror. Everyone who passes by it will be horrified and will hiss because of all
its disasters.
Jer 49:18 As when Sodom and Gomorrah and their neighboring cities were overthrown, says the LORD, no man
shall dwell there, no man shall sojourn in her.
Jer 49:19 Behold, like a lion coming up from the jungle of the Jordan against a perennial pasture, I will suddenly
make him run away from her. And I will appoint over her whomever I choose. For who is like me? Who will
summon me? What shepherd can stand before me?
Jer 49:20 Therefore hear the plan that the LORD has made against Edom and the purposes that he has formed
against the inhabitants of Teman: Even the little ones of the flock shall be dragged away. Surely their fold shall
be appalled at their fate.
Jer 49:21 At the sound of their fall the earth shall tremble; the sound of their cry shall be heard at the Red Sea.
Jer 49:22 Behold, one shall mount up and fly swiftly like an eagle and spread his wings against Bozrah, and the
heart of the warriors of Edom shall be in that day like the heart of a woman in her birth pains."
Jer 49:23 Concerning Damascus: "Hamath and Arpad are confounded, for they have heard bad news; they melt
in fear, they are troubled like the sea that cannot be quiet.
Jer 49:24 Damascus has become feeble, she turned to flee, and panic seized her; anguish and sorrows have
taken hold of her, as of a woman in labor.
Jer 49:25 How is the famous city not forsaken, the city of my joy?
Jer 49:26 Therefore her young men shall fall in her squares, and all her soldiers shall be destroyed in that day,
declares the LORD of hosts.
Jer 49:27 And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall devour the strongholds of Ben-hadad."
Jer 49:28 Concerning Kedar and the kingdoms of Hazor that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon struck down.
Thus says the LORD: "Rise up, advance against Kedar! Destroy the people of the east!
Jer 49:29 Their tents and their flocks shall be taken, their curtains and all their goods; their camels shall be led
away from them, and men shall cry to them: 'Terror on every side!'
Jer 49:30 Flee, wander far away, dwell in the depths, O inhabitants of Hazor! declares the LORD. For
Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon has made a plan against you and formed a purpose against you.
Jer 49:31 "Rise up, advance against a nation at ease, that dwells securely, declares the LORD, that has no
gates or bars, that dwells alone.
Jer 49:32 Their camels shall become plunder, their herds of livestock a spoil. I will scatter to every wind those
who cut the corners of their hair, and I will bring their calamity from every side of them, declares the LORD.
Jer 49:33 Hazor shall become a haunt of jackals, an everlasting waste; no man shall dwell there; no man shall
sojourn in her."
Jer 49:34 The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning Elam, in the beginning of the
reign of Zedekiah king of Judah.
Jer 49:35 Thus says the LORD of hosts: "Behold, I will break the bow of Elam, the mainstay of their might.
Jer 49:36 And I will bring upon Elam the four winds from the four quarters of heaven. And I will scatter them to
all those winds, and there shall be no nation to which those driven out of Elam shall not come.
Jer 49:37 I will terrify Elam before their enemies and before those who seek their life. I will bring disaster upon
them, my fierce anger, declares the LORD. I will send the sword after them, until I have consumed them,
Jer 49:38 and I will set my throne in Elam and destroy their king and officials, declares the LORD.
Jer 49:39 "But in the latter days I will restore the fortunes of Elam, declares the LORD."
Jer 50:1 The word that the LORD spoke concerning Babylon, concerning the land of the Chaldeans, by
Jeremiah the prophet:
Jer 50:2 "Declare among the nations and proclaim, set up a banner and proclaim, conceal it not, and say:
'Babylon is taken, Bel is put to shame, Merodach is dismayed. Her images are put to shame, her idols aredismayed.'
Jer 50:3 "For out of the north a nation has come up against her, which shall make her land a desolation, and
none shall dwell in it; both man and beast shall flee away.
Jer 50:4 "In those days and in that time, declares the LORD, the people of Israel and the people of Judah shall
come together, weeping as they come, and they shall seek the LORD their God.
Jer 50:5 They shall ask the way to Zion, with faces turned toward it, saying, 'Come, let us join ourselves to the
LORD in an everlasting covenant that will never be forgotten.'
Jer 50:6 "My people have been lost sheep. Their shepherds have led them astray, turning them away on the
mountains. From mountain to hill they have gone. They have forgotten their fold.
Jer 50:7 All who found them have devoured them, and their enemies have said, 'We are not guilty, for they have
sinned against the LORD, their habitation of righteousness, the LORD, the hope of their fathers.'
Jer 50:8 "Flee from the midst of Babylon, and go out of the land of the Chaldeans, and be as male goats before
the flock.
Jer 50:9 For behold, I am stirring up and bringing against Babylon a gathering of great nations, from the north
country. And they shall array themselves against her. From there she shall be taken. Their arrows are like a
skilled warrior who does not return empty-handed.
Jer 50:10 Chaldea shall be plundered; all who plunder her shall be sated, declares the LORD.
Jer 50:11 "Though you rejoice, though you exult, O plunderers of my heritage, though you frolic like a heifer in
the pasture, and neigh like stallions,
Jer 50:12 your mother shall be utterly shamed, and she who bore you shall be disgraced. Behold, she shall be
the last of the nations, a wilderness, a dry land, and a desert.
Jer 50:13 Because of the wrath of the LORD she shall not be inhabited but shall be an utter desolation;
everyone who passes by Babylon shall be appalled, and hiss because of all her wounds.
Jer 50:14 Set yourselves in array against Babylon all around, all you who bend the bow; shoot at her, spare no
arrows, for she has sinned against the LORD.
Jer 50:15 Raise a shout against her all around; she has surrendered; her bulwarks have fallen; her walls are
thrown down. For this is the vengeance of the LORD: take vengeance on her; do to her as she has done.
Jer 50:16 Cut off from Babylon the sower, and the one who handles the sickle in time of harvest; because of the
sword of the oppressor, every one shall turn to his own people, and every one shall flee to his own land.
Jer 50:17 "Israel is a hunted sheep driven away by lions. First the king of Assyria devoured him, and now at last
Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon has gnawed his bones.
Jer 50:18 Therefore, thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I am bringing punishment on the
king of Babylon and his land, as I punished the king of Assyria.
Jer 50:19 I will restore Israel to his pasture, and he shall feed on Carmel and in Bashan, and his desire shall be
satisfied on the hills of Ephraim and in Gilead.
Jer 50:20 In those days and in that time, declares the LORD, iniquity shall be sought in Israel, and there shall be
none. And sin in Judah, and none shall be found, for I will pardon those whom I leave as a remnant.
Jer 50:21 "Go up against the land of Merathaim, and against the inhabitants of Pekod. Kill, and devote them to
destruction, declares the LORD, and do all that I have commanded you.
Jer 50:22 The noise of battle is in the land, and great destruction!
Jer 50:23 How the hammer of the whole earth is cut down and broken! How Babylon has become a horror
among the nations!
Jer 50:24 I set a snare for you and you were taken, O Babylon, and you did not know it; you were found and
caught, because you opposed the LORD.
Jer 50:25 The LORD has opened his armory and brought out the weapons of his wrath, for the Lord GOD of
hosts has a work to do in the land of the Chaldeans.
Jer 50:26 Come against her from every quarter; open her granaries; pile her up like heaps of grain, and devote
her to destruction; let nothing be left of her.
Jer 50:27 Kill all her bulls; let them go down to the slaughter. Woe to them, for their day has come, the time of
their punishment.
Jer 50:28 "A voice! They flee and escape from the land of Babylon, to declare in Zion the vengeance of the
LORD our God, vengeance for his temple.
Jer 50:29 "Summon archers against Bab-ylon, all those who bend the bow. En-camp around her; let no one
escape. Repay her according to her deeds; do to her according to all that she has done. For she has proudly
defied the LORD, the Holy One of Israel.
Jer 50:30 Therefore her young men shall fall in her squares, and all her soldiers shall be destroyed on that day,
declares the LORD.
Jer 50:31 "Behold, I am against you, O proud one, declares the Lord GOD of hosts, for your day has come, the
time when I will punish you.Jer 50:32 The proud one shall stumble and fall, with none to raise him up, and I will kindle a fire in his cities, and
it will devour all that is around him.
Jer 50:33 "Thus says the LORD of hosts: The people of Israel are oppressed, and the people of Judah with
them. All who took them captive have held them fast; they refuse to let them go.
Jer 50:34 Their Redeemer is strong; the LORD of hosts is his name. He will surely plead their cause, that he
may give rest to the earth, but unrest to the inhabitants of Babylon.
Jer 50:35 "A sword against the Chaldeans, declares the LORD, and against the inhabitants of Babylon, and
against her officials and her wise men!
Jer 50:36 A sword against the diviners, that they may become fools! A sword against her warriors, that they may
be destroyed!
Jer 50:37 A sword against her horses and against her chariots, and against all the foreign troops in her midst,
that they may become women! A sword against all her treasures, that they may be plundered!
Jer 50:38 A drought against her waters, that they may be dried up! For it is a land of images, and they are mad
over idols.
Jer 50:39 "Therefore wild beasts shall dwell with hyenas in Babylon, and ostriches shall dwell in her. She shall
never again have people, nor be inhabited for all generations.
Jer 50:40 As when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah and their neighboring cities, declares the LORD, so no
man shall dwell there, and no son of man shall sojourn in her.
Jer 50:41 "Behold, a people comes from the north; a mighty nation and many kings are stirring from the farthest
parts of the earth.
Jer 50:42 They lay hold of bow and spear; they are cruel and have no mercy. The sound of them is like the
roaring of the sea; they ride on horses, arrayed as a man for battle against you, O daughter of Babylon!
Jer 50:43 "The king of Babylon heard the report of them, and his hands fell helpless; anguish seized him, pain
as of a woman in labor.
Jer 50:44 "Behold, like a lion coming up from the thicket of the Jordan against a perennial pasture, I will
suddenly make them run away from her, and I will appoint over her whomever I choose. For who is like me?
Who will summon me? What shepherd can stand before me?
Jer 50:45 Therefore hear the plan that the LORD has made against Babylon, and the purposes that he has
formed against the land of the Chaldeans: Surely the little ones of their flock shall be dragged away; surely their
fold shall be appalled at their fate.
Jer 50:46 At the sound of the capture of Babylon the earth shall tremble, and her cry shall be heard among the
nations."
Jer 51:1 Thus says the LORD: "Behold, I will stir up the spirit of a destroyer against Babylon, against the
inhabitants of Leb-kamai,
Jer 51:2 and I will send to Babylon winnowers, and they shall winnow her, and they shall empty her land, when
they come against her from every side on the day of trouble.
Jer 51:3 Let not the archer bend his bow, and let him not stand up in his armor. Spare not her young men;
devote to destruction all her army.
Jer 51:4 They shall fall down slain in the land of the Chaldeans, and wounded in her streets.
Jer 51:5 For Israel and Judah have not been forsaken by their God, the LORD of hosts, but the land of the
Chaldeans is full of guilt against the Holy One of Israel.
Jer 51:6 "Flee from the midst of Babylon; let every one save his life! Be not cut off in her punishment, for this is
the time of the LORD's vengeance, the repayment he is rendering her.
Jer 51:7 Babylon was a golden cup in the LORD's hand, making all the earth drunken; the nations drank of her
wine; therefore the nations went mad.
Jer 51:8 Suddenly Babylon has fallen and been broken; wail for her! Take balm for her pain; perhaps she may
be healed.
Jer 51:9 We would have healed Babylon, but she was not healed. Forsake her, and let us go each to his own
country, for her judgment has reached up to heaven and has been lifted up even to the skies.
Jer 51:10 The LORD has brought about our vindication; come, let us declare in Zion the work of the LORD our
God.
Jer 51:11 "Sharpen the arrows! Take up the shields! The LORD has stirred up the spirit of the kings of the
Medes, because his purpose concerning Babylon is to destroy it, for that is the vengeance of the LORD, the
vengeance for his temple.
Jer 51:12 "Set up a standard against the walls of Babylon; make the watch strong; set up watchmen; prepare
the ambushes; for the LORD has both planned and done what he spoke concerning the inhabitants of Babylon.
Jer 51:13 O you who dwell by many waters, rich in treasures, your end has come; the thread of your life is cut.
Jer 51:14 The LORD of hosts has sworn by himself: Surely I will fill you with men, as many as locusts, and they
shall raise the shout of victory over you.Jer 51:15 "It is he who made the earth by his power, who established the world by his wisdom, and by his
understanding stretched out the heavens.
Jer 51:16 When he utters his voice there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and he makes the mist rise from
the ends of the earth. He makes lightning for the rain, and he brings forth the wind from his storehouses.
Jer 51:17 Every man is stupid and without knowledge; every goldsmith is put to shame by his idols, for his
images are false, and there is no breath in them.
Jer 51:18 They are worthless, a work of delusion; at the time of their punishment they shall perish.
Jer 51:19 Not like these is he who is the portion of Jacob, for he is the one who formed all things, and Israel is
the tribe of his inheritance; the LORD of hosts is his name.
Jer 51:20 "You are my hammer and weapon of war: with you I break nations in pieces; with you I destroy
kingdoms;
Jer 51:21 with you I break in pieces the horse and his rider; with you I break in pieces the chariot and the
charioteer;
Jer 51:22 with you I break in pieces man and woman; with you I break in pieces the old man and the youth; with
you I break in pieces the young man and the young woman;
Jer 51:23 with you I break in pieces the shepherd and his flock; with you I break in pieces the farmer and his
team; with you I break in pieces governors and commanders.
Jer 51:24 "I will repay Babylon and all the inhabitants of Chaldea before your very eyes for all the evil that they
have done in Zion, declares the LORD.
Jer 51:25 "Behold, I am against you, O destroying mountain, declares the LORD, which destroys the whole
earth; I will stretch out my hand against you, and roll you down from the crags, and make you a burnt mountain.
Jer 51:26 No stone shall be taken from you for a corner and no stone for a foundation, but you shall be a
perpetual waste, declares the LORD.
Jer 51:27 "Set up a standard on the earth; blow the trumpet among the nations; prepare the nations for war
against her; summon against her the kingdoms, Ararat, Minni, and Ashkenaz; appoint a marshal against her;
bring up horses like bristling locusts.
Jer 51:28 Prepare the nations for war against her, the kings of the Medes, with their governors and deputies,
and every land under their dominion.
Jer 51:29 The land trembles and writhes in pain, for the LORD's purposes against Babylon stand, to make the
land of Babylon a desolation, without inhabitant.
Jer 51:30 The warriors of Babylon have ceased fighting; they remain in their strongholds; their strength has
failed; they have become women; her dwellings are on fire; her bars are broken.
Jer 51:31 One runner runs to meet another, and one messenger to meet another, to tell the king of Babylon that
his city is taken on every side;
Jer 51:32 the fords have been seized, the marshes are burned with fire, and the soldiers are in panic.
Jer 51:33 For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: The daughter of Babylon is like a threshing floor
at the time when it is trodden; yet a little while and the time of her harvest will come."
Jer 51:34 "Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon has devoured me; he has crushed me; he has made me an
empty vessel; he has swallowed me like a monster; he has filled his stomach with my delicacies; he has rinsed
me out.
Jer 51:35 The violence done to me and to my kinsmen be upon Babylon," let the inhabitant of Zion say. "My
blood be upon the inhabitants of Chaldea," let Jerusalem say.
Jer 51:36 Therefore thus says the LORD: "Behold, I will plead your cause and take vengeance for you. I will dry
up her sea and make her fountain dry,
Jer 51:37 and Babylon shall become a heap of ruins, the haunt of jackals, a horror and a hissing, without
inhabitant.
Jer 51:38 "They shall roar together like lions; they shall growl like lions' cubs.
Jer 51:39 While they are inflamed I will prepare them a feast and make them drunk, that they may become
merry, then sleep a perpetual sleep and not wake, declares the LORD.
Jer 51:40 I will bring them down like lambs to the slaughter, like rams and male goats.
Jer 51:41 "How Babylon is taken, the praise of the whole earth seized! How Babylon has become a horror
among the nations!
Jer 51:42 The sea has come up on Babylon; she is covered with its tumultuous waves.
Jer 51:43 Her cities have become a horror, a land of drought and a desert, a land in which no one dwells, and
through which no son of man passes.
Jer 51:44 And I will punish Bel in Babylon, and take out of his mouth what he has swallowed. The nations shall
no longer flow to him; the wall of Babylon has fallen.
Jer 51:45 "Go out of the midst of her, my people! Let every one save his life from the fierce anger of the LORD!
Jer 51:46 Let not your heart faint, and be not fearful at the report heard in the land, when a report comes in oneyear and afterward a report in another year, and violence is in the land, and ruler is against ruler.
Jer 51:47 "Therefore, behold, the days are coming when I will punish the images of Babylon; her whole land
shall be put to shame, and all her slain shall fall in the midst of her.
Jer 51:48 Then the heavens and the earth, and all that is in them, shall sing for joy over Babylon, for the
destroyers shall come against them out of the north, declares the LORD.
Jer 51:49 Babylon must fall for the slain of Israel, just as for Babylon have fallen the slain of all the earth.
Jer 51:50 "You who have escaped from the sword, go, do not stand still! Remember the LORD from far away,
and let Jerusalem come into your mind:
Jer 51:51 'We are put to shame, for we have heard reproach; dishonor has covered our face, for foreigners
have come into the holy places of the LORD's house.'
Jer 51:52 "Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will execute judgment upon her
images, and through all her land the wounded shall groan.
Jer 51:53 Though Babylon should mount up to heaven, and though she should fortify her strong height, yet
destroyers would come from me against her, declares the LORD.
Jer 51:54 "A voice! A cry from Babylon! The noise of great destruction from the land of the Chaldeans!
Jer 51:55 For the LORD is laying Babylon waste and stilling her mighty voice. Their waves roar like many
waters; the noise of their voice is raised,
Jer 51:56 for a destroyer has come upon her, upon Babylon; her warriors are taken; their bows are broken in
pieces, for the LORD is a God of recompense; he will surely repay.
Jer 51:57 I will make drunk her officials and her wise men, her governors, her commanders, and her warriors;
they shall sleep a perpetual sleep and not wake, declares the King, whose name is the LORD of hosts.
Jer 51:58 "Thus says the LORD of hosts: The broad wall of Babylon shall be leveled to the ground, and her high
gates shall be burned with fire. The peoples labor for nothing, and the nations weary themselves only for fire."
Jer 51:59 The word that Jeremiah the prophet commanded Seraiah the son of Neriah, son of Mahseiah, when
he went with Zedekiah king of Judah to Babylon, in the fourth year of his reign. Sera-iah was the quartermaster.
Jer 51:60 Jeremiah wrote in a book all the disaster that should come upon Babylon, all these words that are
written concerning Babylon.
Jer 51:61 And Jeremiah said to Seraiah: "When you come to Babylon, see that you read all these words,
Jer 51:62 and say, 'O LORD, you have said concerning this place that you will cut it off, so that nothing shall
dwell in it, neither man nor beast, and it shall be desolate forever.'
Jer 51:63 When you finish reading this book,, tie a stone to it and cast it into the midst of the Euphrates,
Jer 51:64 and say, 'Thus shall Babylon sink, to rise no more, because of the disaster that I am bringing upon
her, and they shall become exhausted.'"Thus far are the words of Jeremiah.
Jer 52:1 Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king; and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem.
His mother's name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
Jer 52:2 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that Jehoiakim had done.
Jer 52:3 For because of the anger of the LORD things came to the point in Jerusalem and Judah that he cast
them out from his presence. And Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon.
Jer 52:4 And in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, Nebuchadnezzar
king of Babylon came with all his army against Jerusalem, and laid siege to it. And they built siegeworks all
around it.
Jer 52:5 So the city was besieged till the eleventh year of King Zedekiah.
Jer 52:6 On the ninth day of the fourth month the famine was so severe in the city that there was no food for the
people of the land.
Jer 52:7 Then a breach was made in the city, and all the men of war fled and went out from the city by night by
the way of a gate between the two walls, by the king's garden, while the Chaldeans were around the city. And
they went in the direction of the Arabah.
Jer 52:8 But the army of the Chaldeans pursued the king and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho. And all
his army was scattered from him.
Jer 52:9 Then they captured the king and brought him up to the king of Babylon at Riblah in the land of Hamath,
and he passed sentence on him.
Jer 52:10 The king of Babylon slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes, and also slaughtered all the
officials of Judah at Riblah.
Jer 52:11 He put out the eyes of Zedekiah, and bound him in chains, and the king of Babylon took him to
Babylon, and put him in prison till the day of his death.
Jer 52:12 In the fifth month, on the tenth day of the month- that was the nineteenth year of King
Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon- Nebuzaradan the captain of the bodyguard, who served the king of Babylon,
entered Jerusalem.
Jer 52:13 And he burned the house of the LORD, and the king's house and all the houses of Jerusalem; everygreat house he burned down.
Jer 52:14 And all the army of the Chaldeans, who were with the captain of the guard, broke down all the walls
around Jerusalem.
Jer 52:15 And Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive some of the poorest of the people
and the rest of the people who were left in the city and the deserters who had deserted to the king of Babylon,
together with the rest of the artisans.
Jer 52:16 But Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard left some of the poorest of the land to be vinedressers and
plowmen.
Jer 52:17 And the pillars of bronze that were in the house of the LORD, and the stands and the bronze sea that
were in the house of the LORD, the Chaldeans broke in pieces, and carried all the bronze to Babylon.
Jer 52:18 And they took away the pots and the shovels and the snuffers and the basins and the dishes for
incense and all the vessels of bronze used in the temple service;
Jer 52:19 also the small bowls and the fire pans and the basins and the pots and the lampstands and the dishes
for incense and the bowls for drink offerings. What was of gold the captain of the guard took away as gold, and
what was of silver, as silver.
Jer 52:20 As for the two pillars, the one sea, the twelve bronze bulls that were under the sea, and the stands,
which Solomon the king had made for the house of the LORD, the bronze of all these things was beyond weight.
Jer 52:21 As for the pillars, the height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, its circumference was twelve cubits,
and its thickness was four fingers, and it was hollow.
Jer 52:22 On it was a capital of bronze. The height of the one capital was five cubits. A network and
pomegranates, all of bronze, were around the capital. And the second pillar had the same, with pomegranates.
Jer 52:23 There were ninety-six pomegranates on the sides; all the pomegranates were a hundred upon the
network all around.
Jer 52:24 And the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest, and Zepha-niah the second priest, and the
three keepers of the threshold;
Jer 52:25 and from the city he took an officer who had been in command of the men of war, and seven men of
the king's council, who were found in the city; and the secretary of the commander of the army who mustered the
people of the land; and sixty men of the people of the land, who were found in the midst of the city.
Jer 52:26 And Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them and brought them to the king of Babylon at
Riblah.
Jer 52:27 And the king of Babylon struck them down, and put them to death at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So
Judah was taken into exile out of its land.
Jer 52:28 This is the number of the people whom Nebuchadnezzar carried away captive: in the seventh year,
3,023 Judeans;
Jer 52:29 in the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar he carried away captive from Jerusalem 832 persons;
Jer 52:30 in the twenty-third year of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away
captive of the Judeans 745 persons; all the persons were 4,600.
Jer 52:31 And in the thirty-seventh year of the exile of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the
twenty-fifth day of the month, Evil-merodach king of Babylon, in the year that he became king, lifted up the head
of Jehoiachin king of Judah and brought him out of prison.
Jer 52:32 And he spoke kindly to him, and gave him a seat above the seats of the kings who were with him in
Babylon.
Jer 52:33 So Jehoiachin put off his prison garments. And every day of his life he dined regularly at the king's
table,
Jer 52:34 and for his allowance, a regular allowance was given him by the king according to his daily need, until
the day of his death as long as he lived.
Lam 1:1 How lonely sits the citythat was full of people! How like a widow has she become, she who was great
among the nations! She who was a princess among the provinces has become a slave.
Lam 1:2 She weeps bitterly in the night, with tears on her cheeks; among all her lovers she has none to comfort
her; all her friends have dealt treacherously with her; they have become her enemies.
Lam 1:3 Judah has gone into exile because of affliction and hard servitude; she dwells now among the nations,
but finds no resting place; her pursuers have all overtaken her in the midst of her distress.
Lam 1:4 The roads to Zion mourn, for none come to the festival; all her gates are desolate; her priests groan;
her virgins have been afflicted, and she herself suffers bitterly.
Lam 1:5 Her foes have become the head; her enemies prosper, because the LORD has afflicted her for the
multitude of her transgressions; her children have gone away, captives before the foe.
Lam 1:6 From the daughter of Zion all her majesty has departed. Her princes have become like deer that find no
pasture; they fled without strength before the pursuer.
Lam 1:7 Jerusalem remembers in the days of her affliction and wandering all the precious things that were hersfrom days of old. When her people fell into the hand of the foe, and there was none to help her, her foes gloated
over her; they mocked at her downfall.
Lam 1:8 Jerusalem sinned grievously; therefore she became filthy; all who honored her despise her, for they
have seen her nakedness; she herself groans and turns her face away.
Lam 1:9 Her uncleanness was in her skirts; she took no thought of her future; therefore her fall is terrible; she
has no comforter. "O LORD, behold my affliction, for the enemy has triumphed!"
Lam 1:10 The enemy has stretched out his hands over all her precious things; for she has seen the nations
enter her sanctuary, those whom you forbade to enter your congregation.
Lam 1:11 All her people groan as they search for bread; they trade their treasures for food to revive their
strength. "Look, O LORD, and see, for I am despised."
Lam 1:12 "Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by? Look and see if there is any sorrow like my sorrow, which
was brought upon me, which the LORD inflicted on the day of his fierce anger.
Lam 1:13 "From on high he sent fire; into my bones he made it descend; he spread a net for my feet; he turned
me back; he has left me stunned, faint all the day long.
Lam 1:14 "My transgressions were bound into a yoke; by his hand they were fastened together; they were set
upon my neck; he caused my strength to fail; the Lord gave me into the hands of those whom I cannot withstand.
Lam 1:15 "The Lord rejected all my mighty men in my midst; he summoned an assembly against me to crush
my young men; the Lord has trodden as in a winepress the virgin daughter of Judah.
Lam 1:16 "For these things I weep; my eyes flow with tears; for a comforter is far from me, one to revive my
spirit; my children are desolate, for the enemy has prevailed."
Lam 1:17 Zion stretches out her hands, but there is none to comfort her; the LORD has commanded against
Jacob that his neighbors should be his foes; Jerusalem has become a filthy thing among them.
Lam 1:18 "The LORD is in the right, for I have rebelled against his word; but hear, all you peoples, and see my
suffering; my young women and my young men have gone into captivity.
Lam 1:19 "I called to my lovers, but they deceived me; my priests and elders perished in the city, while they
sought food to revive their strength.
Lam 1:20 "Look, O LORD, for I am in distress; my stomach churns; my heart is wrung within me, because I have
been very rebellious. In the street the sword bereaves; in the house it is like death.
Lam 1:21 "They heard my groaning, yet there is no one to comfort me. All my enemies have heard of my
trouble; they are glad that you have done it. You have brought the day you announced; now let them be as I am.
Lam 1:22 "Let all their evildoing come before you, and deal with them as you have dealt with me because of all
my transgressions; for my groans are many, and my heart is faint."
Lam 2:1 How the Lord in his angerhas set the daughter of Zion under a cloud! d He has cast down from heaven
to earth the splendor of Israel; he has not remembered his footstool in the day of his anger.
Lam 2:2 The Lord has swallowed up without mercy all the habitations of Jacob; in his wrath he has broken down
the strongholds of the daughter of Judah; he has brought down to the ground in dishonor the kingdom and its
rulers.
Lam 2:3 He has cut down in fierce anger all the might of Israel; he has withdrawn from them his right hand in the
face of the enemy; he has burned like a flaming fire in Jacob, consuming all around.
Lam 2:4 He has bent his bow like an enemy, with his right hand set like a foe; and he has killed all who were
delightful in our eyes in the tent of the daughter of Zion; he has poured out his fury like fire.
Lam 2:5 The Lord has become like an enemy; he has swallowed up Israel; he has swallowed up all its palaces;
he has laid in ruins its strongholds, and he has multiplied in the daughter of Judah mourning and lamentation.
Lam 2:6 He has laid waste his booth like a garden, laid in ruins his meeting place; the LORD has made Zion
forget festival and Sabbath, and in his fierce indignation has spurned king and priest.
Lam 2:7 The Lord has scorned his altar, disowned his sanctuary; he has delivered into the hand of the enemy
the walls of her palaces; they raised a clamor in the house of the LORD as on the day of festival.
Lam 2:8 The LORD determined to lay in ruins the wall of the daughter of Zion; he stretched out the measuring
line; he did not restrain his hand from destroying; he caused rampart and wall to lament; they languished
together.
Lam 2:9 Her gates have sunk into the ground; he has ruined and broken her bars; her king and princes are
among the nations; the law is no more, and her prophets find no vision from the LORD.
Lam 2:10 The elders of the daughter of Zion sit on the ground in silence; they have thrown dust on their heads
and put on sackcloth; the young women of Jerusalem have bowed their heads to the ground.
Lam 2:11 My eyes are spent with weeping; my stomach churns; my bile is poured out to the ground because of
the destruction of the daughter of my people, because infants and babies faint in the streets of the city.
Lam 2:12 They cry to their mothers, "Where is bread and wine?" as they faint like a wounded man in the streets
of the city, as their life is poured out on their mothers' bosom.
Lam 2:13 What can I say for you, to what compare you, O daughter of Jerusalem? What can I liken to you, that Imay comfort you, O virgin daughter of Zion? For your ruin is vast as the sea; who can heal you?
Lam 2:14 Your prophets have seen for you false and deceptive visions; they have not exposed your iniquity to
restore your fortunes, but have seen for you oracles that are false and misleading.
Lam 2:15 All who pass along the way clap their hands at you; they hiss and wag their heads at the daughter of
Jerusalem; "Is this the city that was called the perfection of beauty, the joy of all the earth?"
Lam 2:16 All your enemies rail against you; they hiss, they gnash their teeth, they cry: "We have swallowed her!
Ah, this is the day we longed for; now we have it; we see it!"
Lam 2:17 The LORD has done what he purposed; he has carried out his word, which he commanded long ago;
he has thrown down without pity; he has made the enemy rejoice over you and exalted the might of your foes.
Lam 2:18 Their heart cried to the Lord. O wall of the daughter of Zion, let tears stream down like a torrent day
and night! Give yourself no rest, your eyes no respite!
Lam 2:19 "Arise, cry out in the night, at the beginning of the night watches! Pour out your heart like water before
the presence of the Lord! Lift your hands to him for the lives of your children, who faint for hunger at the head of
every street."
Lam 2:20 Look, O LORD, and see! With whom have you dealt thus? Should women eat the fruit of their womb,
the children of their tender care? Should priest and prophet be killed in the sanctuary of the Lord?
Lam 2:21 In the dust of the streets lie the young and the old; my young women and my young men have fallen
by the sword; you have killed them in the day of your anger, slaughtering without pity.
Lam 2:22 You summoned as if to a festival day my terrors on every side, and on the day of the anger of the
LORD no one escaped or survived; those whom I held and raised my enemy destroyed.
Lam 3:1 I am the man who has seen affliction under the rod of his wrath;
Lam 3:2 he has driven and brought me into darkness without any light;
Lam 3:3 surely against me he turns his hand again and again the whole day long.
Lam 3:4 He has made my flesh and my skin waste away; he has broken my bones;
Lam 3:5 he has besieged and enveloped me with bitterness and tribulation;
Lam 3:6 he has made me dwell in darkness like the dead of long ago.
Lam 3:7 He has walled me about so that I cannot escape; he has made my chains heavy;
Lam 3:8 though I call and cry for help, he shuts out my prayer;
Lam 3:9 he has blocked my ways with blocks of stones; he has made my paths crooked.
Lam 3:10 He is a bear lying in wait for me, a lion in hiding;
Lam 3:11 he turned aside my steps and tore me to pieces; he has made me desolate;
Lam 3:12 he bent his bow and set me as a target for his arrow.
Lam 3:13 He drove into my kidneys the arrows of his quiver;
Lam 3:14 I have become the laughingstock of all peoples, the object of their taunts all day long.
Lam 3:15 He has filled me with bitterness; he has sated me with wormwood.
Lam 3:16 He has made my teeth grind on gravel, and made me cower in ashes;
Lam 3:17 my soul is bereft of peace; I have forgotten what happiness is;
Lam 3:18 so I say, "My endurance has perished; so has my hope from the LORD."
Lam 3:19 Remember my affliction and my wanderings, the wormwood and the gall!
Lam 3:20 My soul continually remembers it and is bowed down within me.
Lam 3:21 But this I call to mind, and therefore I have hope:
Lam 3:22 The steadfast love of the LORD never ceases; his mercies never come to an end;
Lam 3:23 they are new every morning; great is your faithfulness.
Lam 3:24 "The LORD is my portion," says my soul, "therefore I will hope in him."
Lam 3:25 The LORD is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him.
Lam 3:26 It is good that one should wait quietly for the salvation of the LORD.
Lam 3:27 It is good for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth.
Lam 3:28 Let him sit alone in silence when it is laid on him;
Lam 3:29 let him put his mouth in the dust- there may yet be hope;
Lam 3:30 let him give his cheek to the one who strikes, and let him be filled with insults.
Lam 3:31 For the Lord will not cast off forever,
Lam 3:32 but, though he cause grief, he will have compassion according to the abundance of his steadfast love;
Lam 3:33 for he does not willingly afflict or grieve the children of men.
Lam 3:34 To crush underfoot all the prisoners of the earth,
Lam 3:35 to deny a man justice in the presence of the Most High,
Lam 3:36 to subvert a man in his lawsuit, the Lord does not approve.
Lam 3:37 Who has spoken and it came to pass, unless the Lord has commanded it?
Lam 3:38 Is it not from the mouth of the Most High that good and bad come?
Lam 3:39 Why should a living man complain, a man, about the punishment of his sins?Lam 3:40 Let us test and examine our ways, and return to the LORD!
Lam 3:41 Let us lift up our hearts and hands to God in heaven:
Lam 3:42 "We have transgressed and rebelled, and you have not forgiven.
Lam 3:43 "You have wrapped yourself with anger and pursued us, killing without pity;
Lam 3:44 you have wrapped yourself with a cloud so that no prayer can pass through.
Lam 3:45 You have made us scum and garbage among the peoples.
Lam 3:46 "All our enemies open their mouths against us;
Lam 3:47 panic and pitfall have come upon us, devastation and destruction;
Lam 3:48 my eyes flow with rivers of tears because of the destruction of the daughter of my people.
Lam 3:49 "My eyes will flow without ceasing, without respite,
Lam 3:50 until the LORD from heaven looks down and sees;
Lam 3:51 my eyes cause me grief at the fate of all the daughters of my city.
Lam 3:52 "I have been hunted like a bird by those who were my enemies without cause;
Lam 3:53 they flung me alive into the pit and cast stones on me;
Lam 3:54 water closed over my head; I said, 'I am lost.'
Lam 3:55 "I called on your name, O LORD, from the depths of the pit;
Lam 3:56 you heard my plea, 'Do not close your ear to my cry for help!'
Lam 3:57 You came near when I called on you; you said, 'Do not fear!'
Lam 3:58 "You have taken up my cause, O Lord; you have redeemed my life.
Lam 3:59 You have seen the wrong done to me, O LORD; judge my cause.
Lam 3:60 You have seen all their vengeance, all their plots against me.
Lam 3:61 "You have heard their taunts, O LORD, all their plots against me.
Lam 3:62 The lips and thoughts of my assailants are against me all the day long.
Lam 3:63 Behold their sitting and their rising; I am the object of their taunts.
Lam 3:64 "You will repay them, O LORD, according to the work of their hands.
Lam 3:65 You will give them dullness of heart; your curse will be on them.
Lam 3:66 You will pursue them in anger and destroy them from under your heavens, O LORD."
Lam 4:1 How the gold has grown dim,how the pure gold is changed! The holy stones lie scattered at the head of
every street.
Lam 4:2 The precious sons of Zion, worth their weight in fine gold, how they are regarded as earthen pots, the
work of a potter's hands!
Lam 4:3 Even jackals offer the breast; they nurse their young, but the daughter of my people has become cruel,
like the ostriches in the wilderness.
Lam 4:4 The tongue of the nursing infant sticks to the roof of its mouth for thirst; the children beg for food, but no
one gives to them.
Lam 4:5 Those who once feasted on delicacies perish in the streets; those who were brought up in purple
embrace ash heaps.
Lam 4:6 For the chastisement of the daughter of my people has been greater than the punishment of Sodom,
which was overthrown in a moment, and no hands were wrung for her.
Lam 4:7 Her princes were purer than snow, whiter than milk; their bodies were more ruddy than coral, the
beauty of their form was like sapphire.
Lam 4:8 Now their face is blacker than soot; they are not recognized in the streets; their skin has shriveled on
their bones; it has become as dry as wood.
Lam 4:9 Happier were the victims of the sword than the victims of hunger, who wasted away, pierced by lack of
the fruits of the field.
Lam 4:10 The hands of compassionate women have boiled their own children; they became their food during
the destruction of the daughter of my people.
Lam 4:11 The LORD gave full vent to his wrath; he poured out his hot anger, and he kindled a fire in Zion that
consumed its foundations.
Lam 4:12 The kings of the earth did not believe, nor any of the inhabitants of the world, that foe or enemy could
enter the gates of Jerusalem.
Lam 4:13 This was for the sins of her prophets and the iniquities of her priests, who shed in the midst of her the
blood of the righteous.
Lam 4:14 They wandered, blind, through the streets; they were so defiled with blood that no one was able to
touch their garments.
Lam 4:15 "Away! Unclean!" people cried at them. "Away! Away! Do not touch!" So they became fugitives and
wanderers; people said among the nations, "They shall stay with us no longer."
Lam 4:16 The LORD himself has scattered them; he will regard them no more; no honor was shown to the
priests, no favor to the elders.Lam 4:17 Our eyes failed, ever watching vainly for help; in our watching we watched for a nation which could
not save.
Lam 4:18 They dogged our steps so that we could not walk in our streets; our end drew near; our days were
numbered, for our end had come.
Lam 4:19 Our pursuers were swifter than the eagles in the heavens; they chased us on the mountains; they lay
in wait for us in the wilderness.
Lam 4:20 The breath of our nostrils, the LORD's anointed, was captured in their pits, of whom we said, "Under
his shadow we shall live among the nations."
Lam 4:21 Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of Edom, you who dwell in the land of Uz; but to you also the cup
shall pass; you shall become drunk and strip yourself bare.
Lam 4:22 The punishment of your iniquity, O daughter of Zion, is accomplished; he will keep you in exile no
longer; but your iniquity, O daughter of Edom, he will punish; he will uncover your sins.
Lam 5:1 Remember, O LORD, what has befallen us; look, and see our disgrace!
Lam 5:2 Our inheritance has been turned over to strangers, our homes to foreigners.
Lam 5:3 We have become orphans, fatherless; our mothers are like widows.
Lam 5:4 We must pay for the water we drink; the wood we get must be bought.
Lam 5:5 Our pursuers are at our necks; we are weary; we are given no rest.
Lam 5:6 We have given the hand to Egypt, and to Assyria, to get bread enough.
Lam 5:7 Our fathers sinned, and are no more; and we bear their iniquities.
Lam 5:8 Slaves rule over us; there is none to deliver us from their hand.
Lam 5:9 We get our bread at the peril of our lives, because of the sword in the wilderness.
Lam 5:10 Our skin is hot as an oven with the burning heat of famine.
Lam 5:11 Women are raped in Zion, young women in the towns of Judah.
Lam 5:12 Princes are hung up by their hands; no respect is shown to the elders.
Lam 5:13 Young men are compelled to grind at the mill, and boys stagger under loads of wood.
Lam 5:14 The old men have left the city gate, the young men their music.
Lam 5:15 The joy of our hearts has ceased; our dancing has been turned to mourning.
Lam 5:16 The crown has fallen from our head; woe to us, for we have sinned!
Lam 5:17 For this our heart has become sick, for these things our eyes have grown dim,
Lam 5:18 for Mount Zion which lies desolate; jackals prowl over it.
Lam 5:19 But you, O LORD, reign forever; your throne endures to all generations.
Lam 5:20 Why do you forget us forever, why do you forsake us for so many days?
Lam 5:21 Restore us to yourself, O LORD, that we may be restored! Renew our days as of oldLam 5:22 unless you have utterly rejected us, and you remain exceedingly angry with us.
Eze 1:1 In the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, on the fifth day of the month, as I was among the exiles by the
Chebar canal, the heavens were opened, and I saw visions of God.
Eze 1:2 On the fifth day of the month (it was the fifth year of the exile of King Jehoiachin),
Eze 1:3 the word of the LORD came to Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by the
Chebar canal, and the hand of the LORD was upon him there.
Eze 1:4 As I looked, behold, a stormy wind came out of the north, and a great cloud, with brightness around it,
and fire flashing forth continually, and in the midst of the fire, as it were gleaming metal.
Eze 1:5 And from the midst of it came the likeness of four living creatures. And this was their appearance: they
had a human likeness,
Eze 1:6 but each had four faces, and each of them had four wings.
Eze 1:7 Their legs were straight, and the soles of their feet were like the sole of a calf's foot. And they sparkled
like burnished bronze.
Eze 1:8 Under their wings on their four sides they had human hands. And the four had their faces and their
wings thus:
Eze 1:9 their wings touched one another. Each one of them went straight forward, without turning as they went.
Eze 1:10 As for the likeness of their faces, each had a human face. The four had the face of a lion on the right
side, the four had the face of an ox on the left side, and the four had the face of an eagle.
Eze 1:11 Such were their faces. And their wings were spread out above. Each creature had two wings, each of
which touched the wing of another, while two covered their bodies.
Eze 1:12 And each went straight forward. Wherever the spirit would go, they went, without turning as they went.
Eze 1:13 As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like burning coals of fire, like the
appearance of torches moving to and fro among the living creatures. And the fire was bright, and out of the fire
went forth lightning.
Eze 1:14 And the living creatures darted to and fro, like the appearance of a flash of lightning.
Eze 1:15 Now as I looked at the living creatures, I saw a wheel on the earth beside the living creatures, one foreach of the four of them.
Eze 1:16 As for the appearance of the wheels and their construction: their appearance was like the gleaming of
beryl. And the four had the same likeness, their appearance and construction being as it were a wheel within a
wheel.
Eze 1:17 When they went, they went in any of their four directions without turning as they went.
Eze 1:18 And their rims were tall and awesome, and the rims of all four were full of eyes all around.
Eze 1:19 And when the living creatures went, the wheels went beside them; and when the living creatures rose
from the earth, the wheels rose.
Eze 1:20 Wherever the spirit wanted to go, they went, and the wheels rose along with them, for the spirit of the
living creatures was in the wheels.
Eze 1:21 When those went, these went; and when those stood, these stood; and when those rose from the
earth, the wheels rose along with them, for the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels.
Eze 1:22 Over the heads of the living creatures there was the likeness of an expanse, shining like awe-inspiring
crystal, spread out above their heads.
Eze 1:23 And under the expanse their wings were stretched out straight, one toward another. And each creature
had two wings covering its body.
Eze 1:24 And when they went, I heard the sound of their wings like the sound of many waters, like the sound of
the Almighty, a sound of tumult like the sound of an army. When they stood still, they let down their wings.
Eze 1:25 And there came a voice from above the expanse over their heads. When they stood still, they let down
their wings.
Eze 1:26 And above the expanse over their heads there was the likeness of a throne, in appearance like
sapphire; and seated above the likeness of a throne was a likeness with a human appearance.
Eze 1:27 And upward from what had the appearance of his waist I saw as it were gleaming metal, like the
appearance of fire enclosed all around. And downward from what had the appearance of his waist I saw as it
were the appearance of fire, and there was brightness around him.
Eze 1:28 Like the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud on the day of rain, so was the appearance of the
brightness all around. Such was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the LORD. And when I saw it, I
fell on my face, and I heard the voice of one speaking.
Eze 2:1 And he said to me, "Son of man, stand on your feet, and I will speak with you."
Eze 2:2 And as he spoke to me, the Spirit entered into me and set me on my feet, and I heard him speaking to
me.
Eze 2:3 And he said to me, "Son of man, I send you to the people of Israel, to nations of rebels, who have
rebelled against me. They and their fathers have transgressed against me to this very day.
Eze 2:4 The descendants also are impudent and stubborn: I send you to them, and you shall say to them, 'Thus
says the Lord GOD.'
Eze 2:5 And whether they hear or refuse to hear (for they are a rebellious house) they will know that a prophet
has been among them.
Eze 2:6 And you, son of man, be not afraid of them, nor be afraid of their words, though briers and thorns are
with you and you sit on scorpions. Be not afraid of their words, nor be dismayed at their looks, for they are a
rebellious house.
Eze 2:7 And you shall speak my words to them, whether they hear or refuse to hear, for they are a rebellious
house.
Eze 2:8 "But you, son of man, hear what I say to you. Be not rebellious like that rebellious house; open your
mouth and eat what I give you."
Eze 2:9 And when I looked, behold, a hand was stretched out to me, and behold, a scroll of a book was in it.
Eze 2:10 And he spread it before me. And it had writing on the front and on the back, and there were written on
it words of lamentation and mourning and woe.
Eze 3:1 And he said to me, "Son of man, eat whatever you find here. Eat this scroll, and go, speak to the house
of Israel."
Eze 3:2 So I opened my mouth, and he gave me this scroll to eat.
Eze 3:3 And he said to me, "Son of man, feed your belly with this scroll that I give you and fill your stomach with
it." Then I ate it, and it was in my mouth as sweet as honey.
Eze 3:4 And he said to me, "Son of man, go to the house of Israel and speak with my words to them.
Eze 3:5 For you are not sent to a people of foreign speech and a hard language, but to the house of IsraelEze 3:6 not to many peoples of foreign speech and a hard language, whose words you cannot understand.
Surely, if I sent you to such, they would listen to you.
Eze 3:7 But the house of Israel will not be willing to listen to you, for they are not willing to listen to me. Because
all the house of Israel have a hard forehead and a stubborn heart.
Eze 3:8 Behold, I have made your face as hard as their faces, and your forehead as hard as their foreheads.Eze 3:9 Like emery harder than flint have I made your forehead. Fear them not, nor be dismayed at their looks,
for they are a rebellious house."
Eze 3:10 Moreover, he said to me, "Son of man, all my words that I shall speak to you receive in your heart, and
hear with your ears.
Eze 3:11 And go to the exiles, to your people, and speak to them and say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD,'
whether they hear or refuse to hear."
Eze 3:12 Then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me the voice of a great earthquake: "Blessed be the
glory of the LORD from its place!"
Eze 3:13 It was the sound of the wings of the living creatures as they touched one another, and the sound of the
wheels beside them, and the sound of a great earthquake.
Eze 3:14 The Spirit lifted me up and took me away, and I went in bitterness in the heat of my spirit, the hand of
the LORD being strong upon me.
Eze 3:15 And I came to the exiles at Tel-abib, who were dwelling by the Chebar canal, and I sat where they
were dwelling. And I sat there overwhelmed among them seven days.
Eze 3:16 And at the end of seven days, the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 3:17 "Son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. Whenever you hear a word from
my mouth, you shall give them warning from me.
Eze 3:18 If I say to the wicked, 'You shall surely die,' and you give him no warning, nor speak to warn the
wicked from his wicked way, in order to save his life, that wicked person shall die for his iniquity, but his blood I
will require at your hand.
Eze 3:19 But if you warn the wicked, and he does not turn from his wickedness, or from his wicked way, he shall
die for his iniquity, but you will have delivered your soul.
Eze 3:20 Again, if a righteous person turns from his righteousness and commits injustice, and I lay a stumbling
block before him, he shall die. Because you have not warned him, he shall die for his sin, and his righteous
deeds that he has done shall not be remembered, but his blood I will require at your hand.
Eze 3:21 But if you warn the righteous person not to sin, and he does not sin, he shall surely live, because he
took warning, and you will have delivered your soul."
Eze 3:22 And the hand of the LORD was upon me there. And he said to me, "Arise, go out into the valley, and
there I will speak with you."
Eze 3:23 So I arose and went out into the valley, and behold, the glory of the LORD stood there, like the glory
that I had seen by the Chebar canal, and I fell on my face.
Eze 3:24 But the Spirit entered into me and set me on my feet, and he spoke with me and said to me, "Go, shut
yourself within your house.
Eze 3:25 And you, O son of man, behold, cords will be placed upon you, and you shall be bound with them, so
that you cannot go out among the people.
Eze 3:26 And I will make your tongue cling to the roof of your mouth, so that you shall be mute and unable to
reprove them, for they are a rebellious house.
Eze 3:27 But when I speak with you, I will open your mouth, and you shall say to them, 'Thus says the Lord
GOD.' He who will hear, let him hear; and he who will refuse to hear, let him refuse, for they are a rebellious
house.
Eze 4:1 "And you, son of man, take a brick and lay it before you, and engrave on it a city, even Jerusalem.
Eze 4:2 And put siegeworks against it, and build a siege wall against it, and cast up a mound against it. Set
camps also against it, and plant battering rams against it all around.
Eze 4:3 And you, take an iron griddle, and place it as an iron wall between you and the city; and set your face
toward it, and let it be in a state of siege, and press the siege against it. This is a sign for the house of Israel.
Eze 4:4 "Then lie on your left side, and place the punishment of the house of Israel upon it. For the number of
the days that you lie on it, you shall bear their punishment.
Eze 4:5 For I assign to you a number of days, 390 days, equal to the number of the years of their punishment.
So long shall you bear the punishment of the house of Israel.
Eze 4:6 And when you have completed these, you shall lie down a second time, but on your right side, and bear
the punishment of the house of Judah. Forty days I assign you, a day for each year.
Eze 4:7 And you shall set your face toward the siege of Jerusalem, with your arm bared, and you shall prophesy
against the city.
Eze 4:8 And behold, I will place cords upon you, so that you cannot turn from one side to the other, till you have
completed the days of your siege.
Eze 4:9 "And you, take wheat and barley, beans and lentils, millet and emmer, and put them into a single vessel
and make your bread from them. During the number of days that you lie on your side, 390 days, you shall eat it.
Eze 4:10 And your food that you eat shall be by weight, twenty shekels a day; from day to day you shall eat it.
Eze 4:11 And water you shall drink by measure, the sixth part of a hin; from day to day you shall drink.Eze 4:12 And you shall eat it as a barley cake, baking it in their sight on human dung."
Eze 4:13 And the LORD said, "Thus shall the people of Israel eat their bread unclean, among the nations where
I will drive them."
Eze 4:14 Then I said, "Ah, Lord GOD! Behold, I have never defiled myself. From my youth up till now I have
never eaten what died of itself or was torn by beasts, nor has tainted meat come into my mouth."
Eze 4:15 Then he said to me, "See, I assign to you cow's dung instead of human dung, on which you may
prepare your bread."
Eze 4:16 Moreover, he said to me, "Son of man, behold, I will break the supply of bread in Jerusalem. They
shall eat bread by weight and with anxiety, and they shall drink water by measure and in dismay.
Eze 4:17 I will do this that they may lack bread and water, and look at one another in dismay, and rot away
because of their punishment.
Eze 5:1 "And you, O son of man, take a sharp sword. Use it as a barber's razor and pass it over your head and
your beard. Then take balances for weighing and divide the hair.
Eze 5:2 A third part you shall burn in the fire in the midst of the city, when the days of the siege are completed.
And a third part you shall take and strike with the sword all around the city. And a third part you shall scatter to
the wind, and I will unsheathe the sword after them.
Eze 5:3 And you shall take from these a small number and bind them in the skirts of your robe.
Eze 5:4 And of these again you shall take some and cast them into the midst of the fire and burn them in the
fire. From there a fire will come out into all the house of Israel.
Eze 5:5 "Thus says the Lord GOD: This is Jerusalem. I have set her in the center of the nations, with countries
all around her.
Eze 5:6 And she has rebelled against my rules by doing wickedness more than the nations, and against my
statutes more than the countries all around her; for they have rejected my rules and have not walked in my
statutes.
Eze 5:7 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you are more turbulent than the nations that are all around
you, and have not walked in my statutes or obeyed my rules, and have not even acted according to the rules of
the nations that are all around you,
Eze 5:8 therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I, even I, am against you. And I will execute judgments in
your midst in the sight of the nations.
Eze 5:9 And because of all your abominations I will do with you what I have never yet done, and the like of
which I will never do again.
Eze 5:10 Therefore fathers shall eat their sons in your midst, and sons shall eat their fathers. And I will execute
judgments on you, and any of you who survive I will scatter to all the winds.
Eze 5:11 Therefore, as I live, declares the Lord GOD, surely, because you have defiled my sanctuary with all
your detestable things and with all your abominations, therefore I will withdraw. My eye will not spare, and I will
have no pity.
Eze 5:12 A third part of you shall die of pestilence and be consumed with famine in your midst; a third part shall
fall by the sword all around you; and a third part I will scatter to all the winds and will unsheathe the sword after
them.
Eze 5:13 "Thus shall my anger spend itself, and I will vent my fury upon them and satisfy myself. And they shall
know that I am the LORD- that I have spoken in my jealousy- when I spend my fury upon them.
Eze 5:14 Moreover, I will make you a desolation and an object of reproach among the nations all around you
and in the sight of all who pass by.
Eze 5:15 You shall be a reproach and a taunt, a warning and a horror, to the nations all around you, when I
execute judgments on you in anger and fury, and with furious rebukes- I am the LORD, I have spokenEze 5:16 when I send against you the deadly arrows of famine, arrows for destruction, which I will send to
destroy you, and when I bring more and more famine upon you and break your supply of bread.
Eze 5:17 I will send famine and wild beasts against you, and they will rob you of your children. Pestilence and
blood shall pass through you, and I will bring the sword upon you. I am the LORD; I have spoken."
Eze 6:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 6:2 "Son of man, set your face toward the mountains of Israel, and prophesy against them,
Eze 6:3 and say, You mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord GOD! Thus says the Lord GOD to the
mountains and the hills, to the ravines and the valleys: Behold, I, even I, will bring a sword upon you, and I will
destroy your high places.
Eze 6:4 Your altars shall become desolate, and your incense altars shall be broken, and I will cast down your
slain before your idols.
Eze 6:5 And I will lay the dead bodies of the people of Israel before their idols, and I will scatter your bones
around your altars.
Eze 6:6 Wherever you dwell, the cities shall be waste and the high places ruined, so that your altars will bewaste and ruined, your idols broken and destroyed, your incense altars cut down, and your works wiped out.
Eze 6:7 And the slain shall fall in your midst, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
Eze 6:8 "Yet I will leave some of you alive. When you have among the nations some who escape the sword,
and when you are scattered through the countries,
Eze 6:9 then those of you who escape will remember me among the nations where they are carried captive,
how I have been broken over their whoring heart that has departed from me and over their eyes that go whoring
after their idols. And they will be loathsome in their own sight for the evils that they have committed, for all their
abominations.
Eze 6:10 And they shall know that I am the LORD. I have not said in vain that I would do this evil to them."
Eze 6:11 Thus says the Lord GOD: "Clap your hands and stamp your foot and say, Alas, because of all the evil
abominations of the house of Israel, for they shall fall by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence.
Eze 6:12 He who is far off shall die of pestilence, and he who is near shall fall by the sword, and he who is left
and is preserved shall die of famine. Thus I will spend my fury upon them.
Eze 6:13 And you shall know that I am the LORD, when their slain lie among their idols around their altars, on
every high hill, on all the mountaintops, under every green tree, and under every leafy oak, wherever they
offered pleasing aroma to all their idols.
Eze 6:14 And I will stretch out my hand against them and make the land desolate and waste, in all their dwelling
places, from the wilderness to Riblah. Then they will know that I am the LORD."
Eze 7:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 7:2 "And you, O son of man, thus says the Lord GOD to the land of Israel: An end! The end has come upon
the four corners of the land.
Eze 7:3 Now the end is upon you, and I will send my anger upon you; I will judge you according to your ways,
and I will punish you for all your abominations.
Eze 7:4 And my eye will not spare you, nor will I have pity, but I will punish you for your ways, while your
abominations are in your midst. Then you will know that I am the LORD.
Eze 7:5 "Thus says the Lord GOD: Disaster after disaster! Behold, it comes.
Eze 7:6 An end has come; the end has come; it has awakened against you. Behold, it comes.
Eze 7:7 Your doom has come to you, O inhabitant of the land. The time has come; the day is near, a day of
tumult, and not of joyful shouting on the mountains.
Eze 7:8 Now I will soon pour out my wrath upon you, and spend my anger against you, and judge you according
to your ways, and I will punish you for all your abominations.
Eze 7:9 And my eye will not spare, nor will I have pity. I will punish you according to your ways, while your
abominations are in your midst. Then you will know that I am the LORD, who strikes.
Eze 7:10 "Behold, the day! Behold, it comes! Your doom has come; the rod has blossomed; pride has budded.
Eze 7:11 Violence has grown up into a rod of wickedness. None of them shall remain, nor their abundance, nor
their wealth; neither shall there be preeminence among them.
Eze 7:12 The time has come; the day has arrived. Let not the buyer rejoice, nor the seller mourn, for wrath is
upon all their multitude.
Eze 7:13 For the seller shall not return to what he has sold, while they live. For the vision concerns all their
multitude; it shall not turn back; and because of his iniquity, none can maintain his life.
Eze 7:14 "They have blown the trumpet and made everything ready, but none goes to battle, for my wrath is
upon all their multitude.
Eze 7:15 The sword is without; pestilence and famine are within. He who is in the field dies by the sword, and
him who is in the city famine and pestilence devour.
Eze 7:16 And if any survivors escape, they will be on the mountains, like doves of the valleys, all of them
moaning, each one over his iniquity.
Eze 7:17 All hands are feeble, and all knees turn to water.
Eze 7:18 They put on sackcloth, and horror covers them. Shame is on all faces, and baldness on all their heads.
Eze 7:19 They cast their silver into the streets, and their gold is like an unclean thing. Their silver and gold are
not able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the LORD. They cannot satisfy their hunger or fill their
stomachs with it. For it was the stumbling block of their iniquity.
Eze 7:20 His beautiful ornament they used for pride, and they made their abominable images and their
detestable things of it. Therefore I make it an unclean thing to them.
Eze 7:21 And I will give it into the hands of foreigners for prey, and to the wicked of the earth for spoil, and they
shall profane it.
Eze 7:22 I will turn my face from them, and they shall profane my treasured place. Robbers shall enter and
profane it.
Eze 7:23 "Forge a chain! For the land is full of bloody crimes and the city is full of violence.
Eze 7:24 I will bring the worst of the nations to take possession of their houses. I will put an end to the pride ofthe strong, and their holy places shall be profaned.
Eze 7:25 When anguish comes, they will seek peace, but there shall be none.
Eze 7:26 Disaster comes upon disaster; rumor follows rumor. They seek a vision from the prophet, while the law
perishes from the priest and counsel from the elders.
Eze 7:27 The king mourns, the prince is wrapped in despair, and the hands of the people of the land are
paralyzed by terror. According to their way I will do to them, and according to their judgments I will judge them,
and they shall know that I am the LORD."
Eze 8:1 In the sixth year, in the sixth month, on the fifth day of the month, as I sat in my house, with the elders
of Judah sitting before me, the hand of the Lord GOD fell upon me there.
Eze 8:2 Then I looked, and behold, a form that had the appearance of a man. Below what appeared to be his
waist was fire, and above his waist was something like the appearance of brightness, like gleaming metal.
Eze 8:3 He put out the form of a hand and took me by a lock of my head, and the Spirit lifted me up between
earth and heaven and brought me in visions of God to Jerusalem, to the entrance of the gateway of the inner
court that faces north, where was the seat of the image of jealousy, which provokes to jealousy.
Eze 8:4 And behold, the glory of the God of Israel was there, like the vision that I saw in the valley.
Eze 8:5 Then he said to me, "Son of man, lift up your eyes now toward the north." So I lifted up my eyes toward
the north, and behold, north of the altar gate, in the entrance, was this image of jealousy.
Eze 8:6 And he said to me, "Son of man, do you see what they are doing, the great abominations that the house
of Israel are committing here, to drive me far from my sanctuary? But you will see still greater abominations."
Eze 8:7 And he brought me to the entrance of the court, and when I looked, behold, there was a hole in the wall.
Eze 8:8 Then he said to me, "Son of man, dig in the wall." So I dug in the wall, and behold, there was an
entrance.
Eze 8:9 And he said to me, "Go in, and see the vile abominations that they are committing here."
Eze 8:10 So I went in and saw. And there, engraved on the wall all around, was every form of creeping things
and loathsome beasts, and all the idols of the house of Israel.
Eze 8:11 And before them stood seventy men of the elders of the house of Israel, with Jaazaniah the son of
Shaphan standing among them. Each had his censer in his hand, and the smoke of the cloud of incense went
up.
Eze 8:12 Then he said to me, "Son of man, have you seen what the elders of the house of Israel are doing in
the dark, each in his room of pictures? For they say, 'The LORD does not see us, the LORD has forsaken the
land.'"
Eze 8:13 He said also to me, "You will see still greater abominations that they commit."
Eze 8:14 Then he brought me to the entrance of the north gate of the house of the LORD, and behold, there sat
women weeping for Tammuz.
Eze 8:15 Then he said to me, "Have you seen this, O son of man? You will see still greater abominations than
these."
Eze 8:16 And he brought me into the inner court of the house of the LORD. And behold, at the entrance of the
temple of the LORD, between the porch and the altar, were about twenty-five men, with their backs to the temple
of the LORD, and their faces toward the east, worshiping the sun toward the east.
Eze 8:17 Then he said to me, "Have you seen this, O son of man? Is it too light a thing for the house of Judah to
commit the abominations that they commit here, that they should fill the land with violence and provoke me still
further to anger? Behold, they put the branch to their nose.
Eze 8:18 Therefore I will act in wrath. My eye will not spare, nor will I have pity. And though they cry in my ears
with a loud voice, I will not hear them."
Eze 9:1 Then he cried in my ears with a loud voice, saying, "Bring near the executioners of the city, each with
his destroying weapon in his hand."
Eze 9:2 And behold, six men came from the direction of the upper gate, which faces north, each with his
weapon for slaughter in his hand, and with them was a man clothed in linen, with a writing case at his waist. And
they went in and stood beside the bronze altar.
Eze 9:3 Now the glory of the God of Israel had gone up from the cherub on which it rested to the threshold of
the house. And he called to the man clothed in linen, who had the writing case at his waist.
Eze 9:4 And the LORD said to him, "Pass through the city, through Jerusalem, and put a mark on the foreheads
of the men who sigh and groan over all the abominations that are committed in it."
Eze 9:5 And to the others he said in my hearing, "Pass through the city after him, and strike. Your eye shall not
spare, and you shall show no pity.
Eze 9:6 Kill old men outright, young men and maidens, little children and women, but touch no one on whom is
the mark. And begin at my sanctuary." So they began with the elders who were before the house.
Eze 9:7 Then he said to them, "Defile the house, and fill the courts with the slain. Go out." So they went out and
struck in the city.Eze 9:8 And while they were striking, and I was left alone, I fell upon my face, and cried, "Ah, Lord GOD! Will
you destroy all the remnant of Israel in the outpouring of your wrath on Jerusalem?"
Eze 9:9 Then he said to me, "The guilt of the house of Israel and Judah is exceedingly great. The land is full of
blood, and the city full of injustice. For they say, 'The LORD has forsaken the land, and the LORD does not see.'
Eze 9:10 As for me, my eye will not spare, nor will I have pity; I will bring their deeds upon their heads."
Eze 9:11 And behold, the man clothed in linen, with the writing case at his waist, brought back word, saying, "I
have done as you commanded me."
Eze 10:1 Then I looked, and behold, on the expanse that was over the heads of the cherubim there appeared
above them something like a sapphire, in appearance like a throne.
Eze 10:2 And he said to the man clothed in linen, "Go in among the whirling wheels underneath the cherubim.
Fill your hands with burning coals from between the cherubim, and scatter them over the city." And he went in
before my eyes.
Eze 10:3 Now the cherubim were standing on the south side of the house, when the man went in, and a cloud
filled the inner court.
Eze 10:4 And the glory of the LORD went up from the cherub to the threshold of the house, and the house was
filled with the cloud, and the court was filled with the brightness of the glory of the LORD.
Eze 10:5 And the sound of the wings of the cherubim was heard as far as the outer court, like the voice of God
Almighty when he speaks.
Eze 10:6 And when he commanded the man clothed in linen, "Take fire from between the whirling wheels, from
between the cherubim," he went in and stood beside a wheel.
Eze 10:7 And a cherub stretched out his hand from between the cherubim to the fire that was between the
cherubim, and took some of it and put it into the hands of the man clothed in linen, who took it and went out.
Eze 10:8 The cherubim appeared to have the form of a human hand under their wings.
Eze 10:9 And I looked, and behold, there were four wheels beside the cherubim, one beside each cherub, and
the appearance of the wheels was like sparkling beryl.
Eze 10:10 And as for their appearance, the four had the same likeness, as if a wheel were within a wheel.
Eze 10:11 When they went, they went in any of their four directions without turning as they went, but in
whatever direction the front wheel faced, the others followed without turning as they went.
Eze 10:12 And their whole body, their rims, and their spokes, their wings, and the wheels were full of eyes all
around- the wheels that the four of them had.
Eze 10:13 As for the wheels, they were called in my hearing "the whirling wheels."
Eze 10:14 And every one had four faces: the first face was the face of the cherub, and the second face was a
human face, and the third the face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle.
Eze 10:15 And the cherubim mounted up. These were the living creatures that I saw by the Chebar canal.
Eze 10:16 And when the cherubim went, the wheels went beside them. And when the cherubim lifted up their
wings to mount up from the earth, the wheels did not turn from beside them.
Eze 10:17 When they stood still, these stood still, and when they mounted up, these mounted up with them, for
the spirit of the living creatures was in them.
Eze 10:18 Then the glory of the LORD went out from the threshold of the house, and stood over the cherubim.
Eze 10:19 And the cherubim lifted up their wings and mounted up from the earth before my eyes as they went
out, with the wheels beside them. And they stood at the entrance of the east gate of the house of the LORD, and
the glory of the God of Israel was over them.
Eze 10:20 These were the living creatures that I saw underneath the God of Israel by the Chebar canal; and I
knew that they were cherubim.
Eze 10:21 Each had four faces, and each four wings, and underneath their wings the likeness of human hands.
Eze 10:22 And as for the likeness of their faces, they were the same faces whose appearance I had seen by the
Chebar canal. Each one of them went straight forward.
Eze 11:1 The Spirit lifted me up and brought me to the east gate of the house of the LORD, which faces east.
And behold, at the entrance of the gateway there were twenty-five men. And I saw among them Jaazaniah the
son of Azzur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people.
Eze 11:2 And he said to me, "Son of man, these are the men who devise iniquity and who give wicked counsel
in this city;
Eze 11:3 who say, 'The time is not near to build houses. This city is the cauldron, and we are the meat.'
Eze 11:4 Therefore prophesy against them, prophesy, O son of man."
Eze 11:5 And the Spirit of the LORD fell upon me, and he said to me, "Say, Thus says the LORD: So you think,
O house of Israel. For I know the things that come into your mind.
Eze 11:6 You have multiplied your slain in this city and have filled its streets with the slain.
Eze 11:7 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Your slain whom you have laid in the midst of it, they are the meat,
and this city is the cauldron, but you shall be brought out of the midst of it.Eze 11:8 You have feared the sword, and I will bring the sword upon you, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 11:9 And I will bring you out of the midst of it, and give you into the hands of foreigners, and execute
judgments upon you.
Eze 11:10 You shall fall by the sword. I will judge you at the border of Israel, and you shall know that I am the
LORD.
Eze 11:11 This city shall not be your cauldron, nor shall you be the meat in the midst of it. I will judge you at the
border of Israel,
Eze 11:12 and you shall know that I am the LORD. For you have not walked in my statutes, nor obeyed my
rules, but have acted according to the rules of the nations that are around you."
Eze 11:13 And it came to pass, while I was prophesying, that Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. Then I fell down
on my face and cried out with a loud voice and said, "Ah, Lord GOD! Will you make a full end of the remnant of
Israel?"
Eze 11:14 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 11:15 "Son of man, your brothers, even your brothers, your kinsmen, the whole house of Israel, all of them,
are those of whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, 'Go far from the LORD; to us this land is given for a
possession.'
Eze 11:16 Therefore say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: Though I removed them far off among the nations, and
though I scattered them among the countries, yet I have been a sanctuary to them for a while in the countries
where they have gone.'
Eze 11:17 Therefore say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: I will gather you from the peoples and assemble you out of
the countries where you have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel.'
Eze 11:18 And when they come there, they will remove from it all its detestable things and all its abominations.
Eze 11:19 And I will give them one heart, and a new spirit I will put within them. I will remove the heart of stone
from their flesh and give them a heart of flesh,
Eze 11:20 that they may walk in my statutes and keep my rules and obey them. And they shall be my people,
and I will be their God.
Eze 11:21 But as for those whose heart goes after their detestable things and their abominations, I will bring
their deeds upon their own heads, declares the Lord GOD."
Eze 11:22 Then the cherubim lifted up their wings, with the wheels beside them, and the glory of the God of
Israel was over them.
Eze 11:23 And the glory of the LORD went up from the midst of the city and stood on the mountain that is on the
east side of the city.
Eze 11:24 And the Spirit lifted me up and brought me in the vision by the Spirit of God into Chaldea, to the
exiles. Then the vision that I had seen went up from me.
Eze 11:25 And I told the exiles all the things that the LORD had shown me.
Eze 12:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 12:2 "Son of man, you dwell in the midst of a rebellious house, who have eyes to see, but see not, who
have ears to hear, but hear not, for they are a rebellious house.
Eze 12:3 As for you, son of man, prepare for yourself an exile's baggage, and go into exile by day in their sight.
You shall go like an exile from your place to another place in their sight. Perhaps they will understand, though
they are a rebellious house.
Eze 12:4 You shall bring out your baggage by day in their sight, as baggage for exile, and you shall go out
yourself at evening in their sight, as those do who must go into exile.
Eze 12:5 In their sight dig through the wall, and bring your baggage out through it.
Eze 12:6 In their sight you shall lift the baggage upon your shoulder and carry it out at dusk. You shall cover
your face that you may not see the land, for I have made you a sign for the house of Israel."
Eze 12:7 And I did as I was commanded. I brought out my baggage by day, as baggage for exile, and in the
evening I dug through the wall with my own hands. I brought out my baggage at dusk, carrying it on my shoulder
in their sight.
Eze 12:8 In the morning the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 12:9 "Son of man, has not the house of Israel, the rebellious house, said to you, 'What are you doing?'
Eze 12:10 Say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: This oracle concerns the prince in Jerusalem and all the
house of Israel who are in it.'
Eze 12:11 Say, 'I am a sign for you: as I have done, so shall it be done to them. They shall go into exile, into
captivity.'
Eze 12:12 And the prince who is among them shall lift his baggage upon his shoulder at dusk, and shall go out.
They shall dig through the wall to bring him out through it. He shall cover his face, that he may not see the land
with his eyes.
Eze 12:13 And I will spread my net over him, and he shall be taken in my snare. And I will bring him to Babylon,the land of the Chaldeans, yet he shall not see it, and he shall die there.
Eze 12:14 And I will scatter toward every wind all who are around him, his helpers and all his troops, and I will
unsheathe the sword after them.
Eze 12:15 And they shall know that I am the LORD, when I disperse them among the nations and scatter them
among the countries.
Eze 12:16 But I will let a few of them escape from the sword, from famine and pestilence, that they may declare
all their abominations among the nations where they go, and may know that I am the LORD."
Eze 12:17 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 12:18 "Son of man, eat your bread with quaking, and drink water with trembling and with anxiety.
Eze 12:19 And say to the people of the land, Thus says the Lord GOD concerning the inhabitants of Jerusalem
in the land of Israel: They shall eat their bread with anxiety, and drink water in dismay. In this way her land will
be stripped of all it contains, on account of the violence of all those who dwell in it.
Eze 12:20 And the inhabited cities shall be laid waste, and the land shall become a desolation; and you shall
know that I am the LORD."
Eze 12:21 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 12:22 "Son of man, what is this proverb that you have about the land of Israel, saying, 'The days grow long,
and every vision comes to nothing'?
Eze 12:23 Tell them therefore, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: I will put an end to this proverb, and they shall no
more use it as a proverb in Israel.' But say to them, The days are near, and the fulfillment of every vision.
Eze 12:24 For there shall be no more any false vision or flattering divination within the house of Israel.
Eze 12:25 For I am the LORD; I will speak the word that I will speak, and it will be performed. It will no longer be
delayed, but in your days, O rebellious house, I will speak the word and perform it, declares the Lord GOD."
Eze 12:26 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 12:27 "Son of man, behold, they of the house of Israel say, 'The vision that he sees is for many days from
now, and he prophesies of times far off.'
Eze 12:28 Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: None of my words will be delayed any longer, but
the word that I speak will be performed, declares the Lord GOD."
Eze 13:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 13:2 "Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel, who are prophesying, and say to those who
prophesy from their own hearts: 'Hear the word of the LORD!'
Eze 13:3 Thus says the Lord GOD, Woe to the foolish prophets who follow their own spirit, and have seen
nothing!
Eze 13:4 Your prophets have been like jackals among ruins, O Israel.
Eze 13:5 You have not gone up into the breaches, or built up a wall for the house of Israel, that it might stand in
battle in the day of the LORD.
Eze 13:6 They have seen false visions and lying divinations. They say, 'Declares the LORD,' when the LORD
has not sent them, and yet they expect him to fulfill their word.
Eze 13:7 Have you not seen a false vision and uttered a lying divination, whenever you have said, 'Declares the
LORD,' although I have not spoken?"
Eze 13:8 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: "Because you have uttered falsehood and seen lying visions,
therefore behold, I am against you, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 13:9 My hand will be against the prophets who see false visions and who give lying divinations. They shall
not be in the council of my people, nor be enrolled in the register of the house of Israel, nor shall they enter the
land of Israel. And you shall know that I am the Lord GOD.
Eze 13:10 Precisely because they have misled my people, saying, 'Peace,' when there is no peace, and
because, when the people build a wall, these prophets smear it with whitewash,
Eze 13:11 say to those who smear it with whitewash that it shall fall! There will be a deluge of rain, and you, O
great hailstones, will fall, and a stormy wind break out.
Eze 13:12 And when the wall falls, will it not be said to you, 'Where is the coating with which you smeared it?'
Eze 13:13 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: I will make a stormy wind break out in my wrath, and there shall
be a deluge of rain in my anger, and great hailstones in wrath to make a full end.
Eze 13:14 And I will break down the wall that you have smeared with whitewash, and bring it down to the
ground, so that its foundation will be laid bare. When it falls, you shall perish in the midst of it, and you shall
know that I am the LORD.
Eze 13:15 Thus will I spend my wrath upon the wall and upon those who have smeared it with whitewash, and I
will say to you, The wall is no more, nor those who smeared it,
Eze 13:16 the prophets of Israel who prophesied concerning Jerusalem and saw visions of peace for her, when
there was no peace, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 13:17 "And you, son of man, set your face against the daughters of your people, who prophesy out of theirown minds. Prophesy against them
Eze 13:18 and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Woe to the women who sew magic bands upon all wrists, and
make veils for the heads of persons of every stature, in the hunt for souls! Will you hunt down souls belonging to
my people and keep your own souls alive?
Eze 13:19 You have profaned me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread, putting to
death souls who should not die and keeping alive souls who should not live, by your lying to my people, who
listen to lies.
Eze 13:20 "Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against your magic bands with which you hunt the
souls like birds, and I will tear them from your arms, and I will let the souls whom you hunt go free, the souls like
birds.
Eze 13:21 Your veils also I will tear off and deliver my people out of your hand, and they shall be no more in
your hand as prey, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
Eze 13:22 Because you have disheartened the righteous falsely, although I have not grieved him, and you have
encouraged the wicked, that he should not turn from his evil way to save his life,
Eze 13:23 therefore you shall no more see false visions nor practice divination. I will deliver my people out of
your hand. And you shall know that I am the LORD."
Eze 14:1 Then certain of the elders of Israel came to me and sat before me.
Eze 14:2 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 14:3 "Son of man, these men have taken their idols into their hearts, and set the stumbling block of their
iniquity before their faces. Should I indeed let myself be consulted by them?
Eze 14:4 Therefore speak to them and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: Any one of the house of Israel
who takes his idols into his heart and sets the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and yet comes to
the prophet, I the LORD will answer him as he comes with the multitude of his idols,
Eze 14:5 that I may lay hold of the hearts of the house of Israel, who are all estranged from me through their
idols.
Eze 14:6 "Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: Repent and turn away from your idols,
and turn away your faces from all your abominations.
Eze 14:7 For any one of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn in Israel, who separates himself
from me, taking his idols into his heart and putting the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and yet
comes to a prophet to consult me through him, I the LORD will answer him myself.
Eze 14:8 And I will set my face against that man; I will make him a sign and a byword and cut him off from the
midst of my people, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
Eze 14:9 And if the prophet is deceived and speaks a word, I, the LORD, have deceived that prophet, and I will
stretch out my hand against him and will destroy him from the midst of my people Israel.
Eze 14:10 And they shall bear their punishment- the punishment of the prophet and the punishment of the
inquirer shall be alikeEze 14:11 that the house of Israel may no more go astray from me, nor defile themselves anymore with all their
transgressions, but that they may be my people and I may be their God, declares the Lord GOD."
Eze 14:12 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 14:13 "Son of man, when a land sins against me by acting faithlessly, and I stretch out my hand against it
and break its supply of bread and send famine upon it, and cut off from it man and beast,
Eze 14:14 even if these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, they would deliver but their own lives by
their righteousness, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 14:15 "If I cause wild beasts to pass through the land, and they ravage it, and it be made desolate, so that
no one may pass through because of the beasts,
Eze 14:16 even if these three men were in it, as I live, declares the Lord GOD, they would deliver neither sons
nor daughters. They alone would be delivered, but the land would be desolate.
Eze 14:17 "Or if I bring a sword upon that land and say, Let a sword pass through the land, and I cut off from it
man and beast,
Eze 14:18 though these three men were in it, as I live, declares the Lord GOD, they would deliver neither sons
nor daughters, but they alone would be delivered.
Eze 14:19 "Or if I send a pestilence into that land and pour out my wrath upon it with blood, to cut off from it man
and beast,
Eze 14:20 even if Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it, as I live, declares the Lord GOD, they would deliver neither
son nor daughter. They would deliver but their own lives by their righteousness.
Eze 14:21 "For thus says the Lord GOD: How much more when I send upon Jerusalem my four disastrous acts
of judgment, sword, famine, wild beasts, and pestilence, to cut off from it man and beast!
Eze 14:22 But behold, some survivors will be left in it, sons and daughters who will be brought out; behold,
when they come out to you, and you see their ways and their deeds, you will be consoled for the disaster that Ihave brought upon Jerusalem, for all that I have brought upon it.
Eze 14:23 They will console you, when you see their ways and their deeds, and you shall know that I have not
done without cause all that I have done in it, declares the Lord GOD."
Eze 15:1 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 15:2 "Son of man, how does the wood of the vine surpass any wood, the vine branch that is among the
trees of the forest?
Eze 15:3 Is wood taken from it to make anything? Do people take a peg from it to hang any vessel on it?
Eze 15:4 Behold, it is given to the fire for fuel. When the fire has consumed both ends of it, and the middle of it
is charred, is it useful for anything?
Eze 15:5 Behold, when it was whole, it was used for nothing. How much less, when the fire has consumed it
and it is charred, can it ever be used for anything!
Eze 15:6 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Like the wood of the vine among the trees of the forest, which I
have given to the fire for fuel, so have I given up the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Eze 15:7 And I will set my face against them. Though they escape from the fire, the fire shall yet consume them,
and you will know that I am the LORD, when I set my face against them.
Eze 15:8 And I will make the land desolate, because they have acted faithlessly, declares the Lord GOD."
Eze 16:1 Again the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 16:2 "Son of man, make known to Jerusalem her abominations,
Eze 16:3 and say, Thus says the Lord GOD to Jerusalem: Your origin and your birth are of the land of the
Canaanites; your father was an Amorite and your mother a Hittite.
Eze 16:4 And as for your birth, on the day you were born your cord was not cut, nor were you washed with
water to cleanse you, nor rubbed with salt, nor wrapped in swaddling cloths.
Eze 16:5 No eye pitied you, to do any of these things to you out of compassion for you, but you were cast out on
the open field, for you were abhorred, on the day that you were born.
Eze 16:6 "And when I passed by you and saw you wallowing in your blood, I said to you in your blood, 'Live!' I
said to you in your blood, 'Live!'
Eze 16:7 I made you flourish like a plant of the field. And you grew up and became tall and arrived at full
adornment. Your breasts were formed, and your hair had grown; yet you were naked and bare.
Eze 16:8 "When I passed by you again and saw you, behold, you were at the age for love, and I spread the
corner of my garment over you and covered your nakedness; I made my vow to you and entered into a covenant
with you, declares the Lord GOD, and you became mine.
Eze 16:9 Then I bathed you with water and washed off your blood from you and anointed you with oil.
Eze 16:10 I clothed you also with embroidered cloth and shod you with fine leather. I wrapped you in fine linen
and covered you with silk.
Eze 16:11 And I adorned you with ornaments and put bracelets on your wrists and a chain on your neck.
Eze 16:12 And I put a ring on your nose and earrings in your ears and a beautiful crown on your head.
Eze 16:13 Thus you were adorned with gold and silver, and your clothing was of fine linen and silk and
embroidered cloth. You ate fine flour and honey and oil. You grew exceedingly beautiful and advanced to royalty.
Eze 16:14 And your renown went forth among the nations because of your beauty, for it was perfect through the
splendor that I had bestowed on you, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 16:15 "But you trusted in your beauty and played the whore because of your renown and lavished your
whorings on any passerby; your beauty became his.
Eze 16:16 You took some of your garments and made for yourself colorful shrines, and on them played the
whore. The like has never been, nor ever shall be.
Eze 16:17 You also took your beautiful jewels of my gold and of my silver, which I had given you, and made for
yourself images of men, and with them played the whore.
Eze 16:18 And you took your embroidered garments to cover them, and set my oil and my incense before them.
Eze 16:19 Also my bread that I gave you- I fed you with fine flour and oil and honey- you set before them for a
pleasing aroma; and so it was, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 16:20 And you took your sons and your daughters, whom you had borne to me, and these you sacrificed to
them to be devoured. Were your whorings so small a matter
Eze 16:21 that you slaughtered my children and delivered them up as an offering by fire to them?
Eze 16:22 And in all your abominations and your whorings you did not remember the days of your youth, when
you were naked and bare, wallowing in your blood.
Eze 16:23 "And after all your wickedness (woe, woe to you! declares the Lord GOD),
Eze 16:24 you built yourself a vaulted chamber and made yourself a lofty place in every square.
Eze 16:25 At the head of every street you built your lofty place and made your beauty an abomination, offering
yourself to any passerby and multiplying your whoring.
Eze 16:26 You also played the whore with the Egyptians, your lustful neighbors, multiplying your whoring, toprovoke me to anger.
Eze 16:27 Behold, therefore, I stretched out my hand against you and diminished your allotted portion and
delivered you to the greed of your enemies, the daughters of the Philistines, who were ashamed of your lewd
behavior.
Eze 16:28 You played the whore also with the Assyrians, because you were not satisfied; yes, you played the
whore with them, and still you were not satisfied.
Eze 16:29 You multiplied your whoring also with the trading land of Chaldea, and even with this you were not
satisfied.
Eze 16:30 "How lovesick is your heart, declares the Lord GOD, because you did all these things, the deeds of a
brazen prostitute,
Eze 16:31 building your vaulted chamber at the head of every street, and making your lofty place in every
square. Yet you were not like a prostitute, because you scorned payment.
Eze 16:32 Adulterous wife, who receives strangers instead of her husband!
Eze 16:33 Men give gifts to all prostitutes, but you gave your gifts to all your lovers, bribing them to come to you
from every side with your whorings.
Eze 16:34 So you were different from other women in your whorings. No one solicited you to play the whore,
and you gave payment, while no payment was given to you; therefore you were different.
Eze 16:35 "Therefore, O prostitute, hear the word of the LORD:
Eze 16:36 Thus says the Lord GOD, Because your lust was poured out and your nakedness uncovered in your
whorings with your lovers, and with all your abominable idols, and because of the blood of your children that you
gave to them,
Eze 16:37 therefore, behold, I will gather all your lovers with whom you took pleasure, all those you loved and
all those you hated. I will gather them against you from every side and will uncover your nakedness to them, that
they may see all your nakedness.
Eze 16:38 And I will judge you as women who commit adultery and shed blood are judged, and bring upon you
the blood of wrath and jealousy.
Eze 16:39 And I will give you into their hands, and they shall throw down your vaulted chamber and break down
your lofty places. They shall strip you of your clothes and take your beautiful jewels and leave you naked and
bare.
Eze 16:40 They shall bring up a crowd against you, and they shall stone you and cut you to pieces with their
swords.
Eze 16:41 And they shall burn your houses and execute judgments upon you in the sight of many women. I will
make you stop playing the whore, and you shall also give payment no more.
Eze 16:42 So will I satisfy my wrath on you, and my jealousy shall depart from you. I will be calm and will no
more be angry.
Eze 16:43 Because you have not remembered the days of your youth, but have enraged me with all these
things, therefore, behold, I have returned your deeds upon your head, declares the Lord GOD. "Have you not
committed lewdness in addition to all your abominations?
Eze 16:44 "Behold, everyone who uses proverbs will use this proverb about you: 'Like mother, like daughter.'
Eze 16:45 You are the daughter of your mother, who loathed her husband and her children; and you are the
sister of your sisters, who loathed their husbands and their children. Your mother was a Hittite and your father an
Amorite.
Eze 16:46 And your elder sister is Samaria, who lived with her daughters to the north of you; and your younger
sister, who lived to the south of you, is Sodom with her daughters.
Eze 16:47 Not only did you walk in their ways and do according to their abominations; within a very little time
you were more corrupt than they in all your ways.
Eze 16:48 As I live, declares the Lord GOD, your sister Sodom and her daughters have not done as you and
your daughters have done.
Eze 16:49 Behold, this was the guilt of your sister Sodom: she and her daughters had pride, excess of food, and
prosperous ease, but did not aid the poor and needy.
Eze 16:50 They were haughty and did an abomination before me. So I removed them, when I saw it.
Eze 16:51 Samaria has not committed half your sins. You have committed more abominations than they, and
have made your sisters appear righteous by all the abominations that you have committed.
Eze 16:52 Bear your disgrace, you also, for you have intervened on behalf of your sisters. Because of your sins
in which you acted more abominably than they, they are more in the right than you. So be ashamed, you also,
and bear your disgrace, for you have made your sisters appear righteous.
Eze 16:53 "I will restore their fortunes, both the fortunes of Sodom and her daughters, and the fortunes of
Samaria and her daughters, and I will restore your own fortunes in their midst,
Eze 16:54 that you may bear your disgrace and be ashamed of all that you have done, becoming a consolationto them.
Eze 16:55 As for your sisters, Sodom and her daughters shall return to their former state, and Samaria and her
daughters shall return to their former state, and you and your daughters shall return to your former state.
Eze 16:56 Was not your sister Sodom a byword in your mouth in the day of your pride,
Eze 16:57 before your wickedness was uncovered? Now you have become an object of reproach for the
daughters of Syria and all those around her, and for the daughters of the Philistines, those all around who
despise you.
Eze 16:58 You bear the penalty of your lewdness and your abominations, declares the LORD.
Eze 16:59 "For thus says the Lord GOD: I will deal with you as you have done, you who have despised the oath
in breaking the covenant,
Eze 16:60 yet I will remember my covenant with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish for you an
everlasting covenant.
Eze 16:61 Then you will remember your ways and be ashamed when you take your sisters, both your elder and
your younger, and I give them to you as daughters, but not on account of the covenant with you.
Eze 16:62 I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall know that I am the LORD,
Eze 16:63 that you may remember and be confounded, and never open your mouth again because of your
shame, when I atone for you for all that you have done, declares the Lord GOD."
Eze 17:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 17:2 "Son of man, propound a riddle, and speak a parable to the house of Israel;
Eze 17:3 say, Thus says the Lord GOD: A great eagle with great wings and long pinions, rich in plumage of
many colors, came to Lebanon and took the top of the cedar.
Eze 17:4 He broke off the topmost of its young twigs and carried it to a land of trade and set it in a city of
merchants.
Eze 17:5 Then he took of the seed of the land and planted it in fertile soil. He placed it beside abundant waters.
He set it like a willow twig,
Eze 17:6 and it sprouted and became a low spreading vine, and its branches turned toward him, and its roots
remained where it stood. So it became a vine and produced branches and put out boughs.
Eze 17:7 "And there was another great eagle with great wings and much plumage, and behold, this vine bent its
roots toward him and shot forth its branches toward him from the bed where it was planted, that he might water
it.
Eze 17:8 It had been planted on good soil by abundant waters, that it might produce branches and bear fruit and
become a noble vine.
Eze 17:9 "Say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Will it thrive? Will he not pull up its roots and cut off its fruit, so that it
withers, so that all its fresh sprouting leaves wither? It will not take a strong arm or many people to pull it from its
roots.
Eze 17:10 Behold, it is planted; will it thrive? Will it not utterly wither when the east wind strikes it- wither away
on the bed where it sprouted?"
Eze 17:11 Then the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 17:12 "Say now to the rebellious house, Do you not know what these things mean? Tell them, behold, the
king of Babylon came to Jerusalem, and took her king and her princes and brought them to him to Babylon.
Eze 17:13 And he took one of the royal offspring and made a covenant with him, putting him under oath ( the
chief men of the land he had taken away),
Eze 17:14 that the kingdom might be humble and not lift itself up, and keep his covenant that it might stand.
Eze 17:15 But he rebelled against him by sending his ambassadors to Egypt, that they might give him horses
and a large army. Will he thrive? Can one escape who does such things? Can he break the covenant and yet
escape?
Eze 17:16 "As I live, declares the Lord GOD, surely in the place where the king dwells who made him king,
whose oath he despised, and whose covenant with him he broke, in Babylon he shall die.
Eze 17:17 Pharaoh with his mighty army and great company will not help him in war, when mounds are cast up
and siege walls built to cut off many lives.
Eze 17:18 He despised the oath in breaking the covenant, and behold, he gave his hand and did all these
things; he shall not escape.
Eze 17:19 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: As I live, surely it is my oath that he despised, and my covenant
that he broke. I will return it upon his head.
Eze 17:20 I will spread my net over him, and he shall be taken in my snare, and I will bring him to Babylon and
enter into judgment with him there for the treachery he has committed against me.
Eze 17:21 And all the pick of his troops shall fall by the sword, and the survivors shall be scattered to every
wind, and you shall know that I am the LORD; I have spoken."
Eze 17:22 Thus says the Lord GOD: "I myself will take a sprig from the lofty top of the cedar and will set it out. Iwill break off from the topmost of its young twigs a tender one, and I myself will plant it on a high and lofty
mountain.
Eze 17:23 On the mountain height of Israel will I plant it, that it may bear branches and produce fruit and
become a noble cedar. And under it will dwell every kind of bird; in the shade of its branches birds of every sort
will nest.
Eze 17:24 And all the trees of the field shall know that I am the LORD; I bring low the high tree, and make high
the low tree, dry up the green tree, and make the dry tree flourish. I am the LORD; I have spoken, and I will do
it."
Eze 18:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 18:2 "What do you mean by repeating this proverb concerning the land of Israel, 'The fathers have eaten
sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge'?
Eze 18:3 As I live, declares the Lord GOD, this proverb shall no more be used by you in Israel.
Eze 18:4 Behold, all souls are mine; the soul of the father as well as the soul of the son is mine: the soul who
sins shall die.
Eze 18:5 "If a man is righteous and does what is just and rightEze 18:6 if he does not eat upon the mountains or lift up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, does not
defile his neighbor's wife or approach a woman in her time of menstrual impurity,
Eze 18:7 does not oppress anyone, but restores to the debtor his pledge, commits no robbery, gives his bread
to the hungry and covers the naked with a garment,
Eze 18:8 does not lend at interest or take any profit, withholds his hand from injustice, executes true justice
between man and man,
Eze 18:9 walks in my statutes, and keeps my rules by acting faithfully- he is righteous; he shall surely live,
declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 18:10 "If he fathers a son who is violent, a shedder of blood, who does any of these things
Eze 18:11 (though he himself did none of these things), who even eats upon the mountains, defiles his
neighbor's wife,
Eze 18:12 oppresses the poor and needy, commits robbery, does not restore the pledge, lifts up his eyes to the
idols, commits abomination,
Eze 18:13 lends at interest, and takes profit; shall he then live? He shall not live. He has done all these
abominations; he shall surely die; his blood shall be upon himself.
Eze 18:14 "Now suppose this man fathers a son who sees all the sins that his father has done; he sees, and
does not do likewise:
Eze 18:15 he does not eat upon the mountains or lift up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, does not
defile his neighbor's wife,
Eze 18:16 does not oppress anyone, exacts no pledge, commits no robbery, but gives his bread to the hungry
and covers the naked with a garment,
Eze 18:17 withholds his hand from iniquity, takes no interest or profit, obeys my rules, and walks in my statutes;
he shall not die for his father's iniquity; he shall surely live.
Eze 18:18 As for his father, because he practiced extortion, robbed his brother, and did what is not good among
his people, behold, he shall die for his iniquity.
Eze 18:19 "Yet you say, 'Why should not the son suffer for the iniquity of the father?' When the son has done
what is just and right, and has been careful to observe all my statutes, he shall surely live.
Eze 18:20 The soul who sins shall die. The son shall not suffer for the iniquity of the father, nor the father suffer
for the iniquity of the son. The righteousness of the righteous shall be upon himself, and the wickedness of the
wicked shall be upon himself.
Eze 18:21 "But if a wicked person turns away from all his sins that he has committed and keeps all my statutes
and does what is just and right, he shall surely live; he shall not die.
Eze 18:22 None of the transgressions that he has committed shall be remembered against him; for the
righteousness that he has done he shall live.
Eze 18:23 Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked, declares the Lord GOD, and not rather that he should
turn from his way and live?
Eze 18:24 But when a righteous person turns away from his righteousness and does injustice and does the
same abominations that the wicked person does, shall he live? None of the righteous deeds that he has done
shall be remembered; for the treachery of which he is guilty and the sin he has committed, for them he shall die.
Eze 18:25 "Yet you say, 'The way of the Lord is not just.' Hear now, O house of Israel: Is my way not just? Is it
not your ways that are not just?
Eze 18:26 When a righteous person turns away from his righteousness and does injustice, he shall die for it; for
the injustice that he has done he shall die.
Eze 18:27 Again, when a wicked person turns away from the wickedness he has committed and does what isjust and right, he shall save his life.
Eze 18:28 Because he considered and turned away from all the transgressions that he had committed, he shall
surely live; he shall not die.
Eze 18:29 Yet the house of Israel says, 'The way of the Lord is not just.' O house of Israel, are my ways not
just? Is it not your ways that are not just?
Eze 18:30 "Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, every one according to his ways, declares the Lord
GOD. Repent and turn from all your transgressions, lest iniquity be your ruin.
Eze 18:31 Cast away from you all the transgressions that you have committed, and make yourselves a new
heart and a new spirit! Why will you die, O house of Israel?
Eze 18:32 For I have no pleasure in the death of anyone, declares the Lord GOD; so turn, and live."
Eze 19:1 And you, take up a lamentation for the princes of Israel,
Eze 19:2 and say: What was your mother? A lioness! Among lions she crouched; in the midst of young lions she
reared her cubs.
Eze 19:3 And she brought up one of her cubs; he became a young lion, and he learned to catch prey; he
devoured men.
Eze 19:4 The nations heard about him; he was caught in their pit, and they brought him with hooks to the land of
Egypt.
Eze 19:5 When she saw that she waited in vain, that her hope was lost, she took another of her cubs and made
him a young lion.
Eze 19:6 He prowled among the lions; he became a young lion, and he learned to catch prey; he devoured
men,
Eze 19:7 and seized their widows. He laid waste their cities, and the land was appalled and all who were in it at
the sound of his roaring.
Eze 19:8 Then the nations set against him from provinces on every side; they spread their net over him; he was
taken in their pit.
Eze 19:9 With hooks they put him in a cage and brought him to the king of Babylon; they brought him into
custody, that his voice should no more be heard on the mountains of Israel.
Eze 19:10 Your mother was like a vine in a vineyard planted by the water, fruitful and full of branches by reason
of abundant water.
Eze 19:11 Its strong stems became rulers' scepters; it towered aloft among the thick boughs; it was seen in its
height with the mass of its branches.
Eze 19:12 But the vine was plucked up in fury, cast down to the ground; the east wind dried up its fruit; they
were stripped off and withered. As for its strong stem, fire consumed it.
Eze 19:13 Now it is planted in the wilderness, in a dry and thirsty land.
Eze 19:14 And fire has gone out from the stem of its shoots, has consumed its fruit, so that there remains in it
no strong stem, no scepter for ruling. This is a lamentation and has become a lamentation.
Eze 20:1 In the seventh year, in the fifth month, on the tenth day of the month, certain of the elders of Israel
came to inquire of the LORD, and sat before me.
Eze 20:2 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 20:3 "Son of man, speak to the elders of Israel, and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD, Is it to inquire of
me that you come? As I live, declares the Lord GOD, I will not be inquired of by you.
Eze 20:4 Will you judge them, son of man, will you judge them? Let them know the abominations of their
fathers,
Eze 20:5 and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: On the day when I chose Israel, I swore to the offspring of
the house of Jacob, making myself known to them in the land of Egypt; I swore to them, saying, I am the LORD
your God.
Eze 20:6 On that day I swore to them that I would bring them out of the land of Egypt into a land that I had
searched out for them, a land flowing with milk and honey, the most glorious of all lands.
Eze 20:7 And I said to them, Cast away the detestable things your eyes feast on, every one of you, and do not
defile yourselves with the idols of Egypt; I am the LORD your God.
Eze 20:8 But they rebelled against me and were not willing to listen to me. None of them cast away the
detestable things their eyes feasted on, nor did they forsake the idols of Egypt. "Then I said I would pour out my
wrath upon them and spend my anger against them in the midst of the land of Egypt.
Eze 20:9 But I acted for the sake of my name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations among
whom they lived, in whose sight I made myself known to them in bringing them out of the land of Egypt.
Eze 20:10 So I led them out of the land of Egypt and brought them into the wilderness.
Eze 20:11 I gave them my statutes and made known to them my rules, by which, if a person does them, he shall
live.
Eze 20:12 Moreover, I gave them my Sabbaths, as a sign between me and them, that they might know that I amthe LORD who sanctifies them.
Eze 20:13 But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness. They did not walk in my statutes but
rejected my rules, by which, if a person does them, he shall live; and my Sabbaths they greatly profaned. "Then I
said I would pour out my wrath upon them in the wilderness, to make a full end of them.
Eze 20:14 But I acted for the sake of my name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, in
whose sight I had brought them out.
Eze 20:15 Moreover, I swore to them in the wilderness that I would not bring them into the land that I had given
them, a land flowing with milk and honey, the most glorious of all lands,
Eze 20:16 because they rejected my rules and did not walk in my statutes, and profaned my Sabbaths; for their
heart went after their idols.
Eze 20:17 Nevertheless, my eye spared them, and I did not destroy them or make a full end of them in the
wilderness.
Eze 20:18 "And I said to their children in the wilderness, Do not walk in the statutes of your fathers, nor keep
their rules, nor defile yourselves with their idols.
Eze 20:19 I am the LORD your God; walk in my statutes, and be careful to obey my rules,
Eze 20:20 and keep my Sabbaths holy that they may be a sign between me and you, that you may know that I
am the LORD your God.
Eze 20:21 But the children rebelled against me. They did not walk in my statutes and were not careful to obey
my rules, by which, if a person does them, he shall live; they profaned my Sabbaths. "Then I said I would pour
out my wrath upon them and spend my anger against them in the wilderness.
Eze 20:22 But I withheld my hand and acted for the sake of my name, that it should not be profaned in the sight
of the nations, in whose sight I had brought them out.
Eze 20:23 Moreover, I swore to them in the wilderness that I would scatter them among the nations and
disperse them through the countries,
Eze 20:24 because they had not obeyed my rules, but had rejected my statutes and profaned my Sabbaths, and
their eyes were set on their fathers' idols.
Eze 20:25 Moreover, I gave them statutes that were not good and rules by which they could not have life,
Eze 20:26 and I defiled them through their very gifts in their offering up all their firstborn, that I might devastate
them. I did it that they might know that I am the LORD.
Eze 20:27 "Therefore, son of man, speak to the house of Israel and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: In
this also your fathers blasphemed me, by dealing treacherously with me.
Eze 20:28 For when I had brought them into the land that I swore to give them, then wherever they saw any
high hill or any leafy tree, there they offered their sacrifices and there they presented the provocation of their
offering; there they sent up their pleasing aromas, and there they poured out their drink offerings.
Eze 20:29 (I said to them, What is the high place to which you go? So its name is called Bamah to this day.)
Eze 20:30 "Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: Will you defile yourselves after the
manner of your fathers and go whoring after their detestable things?
Eze 20:31 When you present your gifts and offer up your children in fire, you defile yourselves with all your idols
to this day. And shall I be inquired of by you, O house of Israel? As I live, declares the Lord GOD, I will not be
inquired of by you.
Eze 20:32 "What is in your mind shall never happen- the thought, 'Let us be like the nations, like the tribes of the
countries, and worship wood and stone.'
Eze 20:33 "As I live, declares the Lord GOD, surely with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm and with wrath
poured out I will be king over you.
Eze 20:34 I will bring you out from the peoples and gather you out of the countries where you are scattered, with
a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out.
Eze 20:35 And I will bring you into the wilderness of the peoples, and there I will enter into judgment with you
face to face.
Eze 20:36 As I entered into judgment with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so I will enter into
judgment with you, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 20:37 I will make you pass under the rod, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant.
Eze 20:38 I will purge out the rebels from among you, and those who transgress against me. I will bring them
out of the land where they sojourn, but they shall not enter the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the
LORD.
Eze 20:39 "As for you, O house of Israel, thus says the Lord GOD: Go serve every one of you his idols, now and
hereafter, if you will not listen to me; but my holy name you shall no more profane with your gifts and your idols.
Eze 20:40 "For on my holy mountain, the mountain height of Israel, declares the Lord GOD, there all the house
of Israel, all of them, shall serve me in the land. There I will accept them, and there I will require your
contributions and the choicest of your gifts, with all your sacred offerings.Eze 20:41 As a pleasing aroma I will accept you, when I bring you out from the peoples and gather you out of
the countries where you have been scattered. And I will manifest my holiness among you in the sight of the
nations.
Eze 20:42 And you shall know that I am the LORD, when I bring you into the land of Israel, the country that I
swore to give to your fathers.
Eze 20:43 And there you shall remember your ways and all your deeds with which you have defiled yourselves,
and you shall loathe yourselves for all the evils that you have committed.
Eze 20:44 And you shall know that I am the LORD, when I deal with you for my name's sake, not according to
your evil ways, nor according to your corrupt deeds, O house of Israel, declares the Lord GOD."
Eze 20:45 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 20:46 "Son of man, set your face toward the southland; preach against the south, and prophesy against the
forest land in the Negeb.
Eze 20:47 Say to the forest of the Negeb, Hear the word of the LORD: Thus says the Lord GOD, Behold, I will
kindle a fire in you, and it shall devour every green tree in you and every dry tree. The blazing flame shall not be
quenched, and all faces from south to north shall be scorched by it.
Eze 20:48 All flesh shall see that I the LORD have kindled it; it shall not be quenched."
Eze 20:49 Then I said, "Ah, Lord GOD! They are saying of me, 'Is he not a maker of parables?'"
Eze 21:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 21:2 "Son of man, set your face toward Jerusalem and preach against the sanctuaries. Prophesy against
the land of Israel
Eze 21:3 and say to the land of Israel, Thus says the LORD: Behold, I am against you and will draw my sword
from its sheath and will cut off from you both righteous and wicked.
Eze 21:4 Because I will cut off from you both righteous and wicked, therefore my sword shall be drawn from its
sheath against all flesh from south to north.
Eze 21:5 And all flesh shall know that I am the LORD. I have drawn my sword from its sheath; it shall not be
sheathed again.
Eze 21:6 "As for you, son of man, groan; with breaking heart and bitter grief, groan before their eyes.
Eze 21:7 And when they say to you, 'Why do you groan?' you shall say, 'Because of the news that it is coming.
Every heart will melt, and all hands will be feeble; every spirit will faint, and all knees will be weak as water.
Behold, it is coming, and it will be fulfilled,'"declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 21:8 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 21:9 "Son of man, prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord; Say: "A sword, a sword is sharpened and also
polished,
Eze 21:10 sharpened for slaughter, polished to flash like lightning! (Or shall we rejoice? You have despised the
rod, my son, with everything of wood.)
Eze 21:11 So the sword is given to be polished, that it may be grasped in the hand. It is sharpened and polished
to be given into the hand of the slayer.
Eze 21:12 Cry out and wail, son of man, for it is against my people. It is against all the princes of Israel. They
are delivered over to the sword with my people. Strike therefore upon your thigh.
Eze 21:13 For it will not be a testing- what could it do if you despise the rod?" declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 21:14 "As for you, son of man, prophesy. Clap your hands and let the sword come down twice, yes, three
times, the sword for those to be slain. It is the sword for the great slaughter, which surrounds them,
Eze 21:15 that their hearts may melt, and many stumble. At all their gates I have given the glittering sword. Ah,
it is made like lightning; it is taken up for slaughter.
Eze 21:16 Cut sharply to the right; set yourself to the left, wherever your face is directed.
Eze 21:17 I also will clap my hands, and I will satisfy my fury; I the LORD have spoken."
Eze 21:18 The word of the LORD came to me again:
Eze 21:19 "As for you, son of man, mark two ways for the sword of the king of Babylon to come. Both of them
shall come from the same land. And make a signpost; make it at the head of the way to a city.
Eze 21:20 Mark a way for the sword to come to Rabbah of the Ammonites and to Judah, into Jerusalem the
fortified.
Eze 21:21 For the king of Babylon stands at the parting of the way, at the head of the two ways, to use
divination. He shakes the arrows; he consults the teraphim; he looks at the liver.
Eze 21:22 Into his right hand comes the divination for Jerusalem, to set battering rams, to open the mouth with
murder, to lift up the voice with shouting, to set battering rams against the gates, to cast up mounds, to build
siege towers.
Eze 21:23 But to them it will seem like a false divination. They have sworn solemn oaths, but he brings their
guilt to remembrance, that they may be taken.
Eze 21:24 "Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you have made your guilt to be remembered, in thatyour transgressions are uncovered, so that in all your deeds your sins appear- because you have come to
remembrance, you shall be taken in hand.
Eze 21:25 And you, O profane wicked one, prince of Israel, whose day has come, the time of your final
punishment,
Eze 21:26 thus says the Lord GOD: Remove the turban and take off the crown. Things shall not remain as they
are. Exalt that which is low, and bring low that which is exalted.
Eze 21:27 A ruin, ruin, ruin I will make it. This also shall not be, until he comes, the one to whom judgment
belongs, and I will give it to him.
Eze 21:28 "And you, son of man, prophesy, and say, Thus says the Lord GOD concerning the Ammonites and
concerning their reproach; say, A sword, a sword is drawn for the slaughter. It is polished to consume and to
flash like lightningEze 21:29 while they see for you false visions, while they divine lies for you- to place you on the necks of the
profane wicked, whose day has come, the time of their final punishment.
Eze 21:30 Return it to its sheath. In the place where you were created, in the land of your origin, I will judge you.
Eze 21:31 And I will pour out my indignation upon you; I will blow upon you with the fire of my wrath, and I will
deliver you into the hands of brutish men, skillful to destroy.
Eze 21:32 You shall be fuel for the fire. Your blood shall be in the midst of the land. You shall be no more
remembered, for I the LORD have spoken."
Eze 22:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Eze 22:2 "And you, son of man, will you judge, will you judge the bloody city? Then declare to her all her
abominations.
Eze 22:3 You shall say, Thus says the Lord GOD: A city that sheds blood in her midst, so that her time may
come, and that makes idols to defile herself!
Eze 22:4 You have become guilty by the blood that you have shed, and defiled by the idols that you have made,
and you have brought your days near, the appointed time of your years has come. Therefore I have made you a
reproach to the nations, and a mockery to all the countries.
Eze 22:5 Those who are near and those who are far from you will mock you; your name is defiled; you are full of
tumult.
Eze 22:6 "Behold, the princes of Israel in you, every one according to his power, have been bent on shedding
blood.
Eze 22:7 Father and mother are treated with contempt in you; the sojourner suffers extortion in your midst; the
fatherless and the widow are wronged in you.
Eze 22:8 You have despised my holy things and profaned my Sabbaths.
Eze 22:9 There are men in you who slander to shed blood, and people in you who eat on the mountains; they
commit lewdness in your midst.
Eze 22:10 In you men uncover their fathers' nakedness; in you they violate women who are unclean in their
menstrual impurity.
Eze 22:11 One commits abomination with his neighbor's wife; another lewdly defiles his daughter-in-law;
another in you violates his sister, his father's daughter.
Eze 22:12 In you they take bribes to shed blood; you take interest and profit and make gain of your neighbors
by extortion; but me you have forgotten, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 22:13 "Behold, I strike my hand at the dishonest gain that you have made, and at the blood that has been in
your midst.
Eze 22:14 Can your courage endure, or can your hands be strong, in the days that I shall deal with you? I the
LORD have spoken, and I will do it.
Eze 22:15 I will scatter you among the nations and disperse you through the countries, and I will consume your
uncleanness out of you.
Eze 22:16 And you shall be profaned by your own doing in the sight of the nations, and you shall know that I am
the LORD."
Eze 22:17 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 22:18 "Son of man, the house of Israel has become dross to me; all of them are bronze and tin and iron
and lead in the furnace; they are dross of silver.
Eze 22:19 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you have all become dross, therefore, behold, I will
gather you into the midst of Jerusalem.
Eze 22:20 As one gathers silver and bronze and iron and lead and tin into a furnace, to blow the fire on it in
order to melt it, so I will gather you in my anger and in my wrath, and I will put you in and melt you.
Eze 22:21 I will gather you and blow on you with the fire of my wrath, and you shall be melted in the midst of it.
Eze 22:22 As silver is melted in a furnace, so you shall be melted in the midst of it, and you shall know that I am
the LORD; I have poured out my wrath upon you."Eze 22:23 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 22:24 "Son of man, say to her, You are a land that is not cleansed or rained upon in the day of indignation.
Eze 22:25 The conspiracy of her prophets in her midst is like a roaring lion tearing the prey; they have devoured
human lives; they have taken treasure and precious things; they have made many widows in her midst.
Eze 22:26 Her priests have done violence to my law and have profaned my holy things. They have made no
distinction between the holy and the common, neither have they taught the difference between the unclean and
the clean, and they have disregarded my Sabbaths, so that I am profaned among them.
Eze 22:27 Her princes in her midst are like wolves tearing the prey, shedding blood, destroying lives to get
dishonest gain.
Eze 22:28 And her prophets have smeared whitewash for them, seeing false visions and divining lies for them,
saying, 'Thus says the Lord GOD,' when the LORD has not spoken.
Eze 22:29 The people of the land have practiced extortion and committed robbery. They have oppressed the
poor and needy, and have extorted from the sojourner without justice.
Eze 22:30 And I sought for a man among them who should build up the wall and stand in the breach before me
for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none.
Eze 22:31 Therefore I have poured out my indignation upon them. I have consumed them with the fire of my
wrath. I have returned their way upon their heads, declares the Lord GOD."
Eze 23:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 23:2 "Son of man, there were two women, the daughters of one mother.
Eze 23:3 They played the whore in Egypt; they played the whore in their youth; there their breasts were pressed
and their virgin bosoms handled.
Eze 23:4 Oholah was the name of the elder and Oholibah the name of her sister. They became mine, and they
bore sons and daughters. As for their names, Oholah is Samaria, and Oholibah is Jerusalem.
Eze 23:5 "Oholah played the whore while she was mine, and she lusted after her lovers the Assyrians, warriors
Eze 23:6 clothed in purple, governors and commanders, all of them desirable young men, horsemen riding on
horses.
Eze 23:7 She bestowed her whoring upon them, the choicest men of Assyria all of them, and she defiled herself
with all the idols of everyone after whom she lusted.
Eze 23:8 She did not give up her whoring that she had begun in Egypt; for in her youth men had lain with her
and handled her virgin bosom and poured out their whoring lust upon her.
Eze 23:9 Therefore I delivered her into the hands of her lovers, into the hands of the Assyrians, after whom she
lusted.
Eze 23:10 These uncovered her nakedness; they seized her sons and her daughters; and as for her, they killed
her with the sword; and she became a byword among women, when judgment had been executed on her.
Eze 23:11 "Her sister Oholibah saw this, and she became more corrupt than her sister in her lust and in her
whoring, which was worse than that of her sister.
Eze 23:12 She lusted after the Assyrians, governors and commanders, warriors clothed in full armor, horsemen
riding on horses, all of them desirable young men.
Eze 23:13 And I saw that she was defiled; they both took the same way.
Eze 23:14 But she carried her whoring further. She saw men portrayed on the wall, the images of the
Chaldeans portrayed in vermilion,
Eze 23:15 wearing belts on their waists, with flowing turbans on their heads, all of them having the appearance
of officers, a likeness of Bab ylonians whose native land was Chaldea.
Eze 23:16 When she saw them, she lusted after them and sent messengers to them in Chaldea.
Eze 23:17 And the Babylonians came to her into the bed of love, and they defiled her with their whoring lust.
And after she was defiled by them, she turned from them in disgust.
Eze 23:18 When she carried on her whoring so openly and flaunted her nakedness, I turned in disgust from her,
as I had turned in disgust from her sister.
Eze 23:19 Yet she increased her whoring, remembering the days of her youth, when she played the whore in
the land of Egypt
Eze 23:20 and lusted after her paramours there, whose members were like those of donkeys, and whose issue
was like that of horses.
Eze 23:21 Thus you longed for the lewdness of your youth, when the Egyptians handled your bosom and
pressed your young breasts."
Eze 23:22 Therefore, O Oholibah, thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I will stir up against you your lovers from
whom you turned in disgust, and I will bring them against you from every side:
Eze 23:23 the Babylonians and all the Chaldeans, Pekod and Shoa and Koa, and all the Assyrians with them,
desirable young men, governors and commanders all of them, officers and men of renown, all of them riding on
horses.Eze 23:24 And they shall come against you from the north with chariots and wagons and a host of peoples.
They shall set themselves against you on every side with buckler, shield, and helmet; and I will commit the
judgment to them, and they shall judge you according to their judgments.
Eze 23:25 And I will direct my jealousy against you, that they may deal with you in fury. They shall cut off your
nose and your ears, and your survivors shall fall by the sword. They shall seize your sons and your daughters,
and your survivors shall be devoured by fire.
Eze 23:26 They shall also strip you of your clothes and take away your beautiful jewels.
Eze 23:27 Thus I will put an end to your lewdness and your whoring begun in the land of Egypt, so that you
shall not lift up your eyes to them or remember Egypt anymore.
Eze 23:28 "For thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will deliver you into the hands of those whom you hate, into
the hands of those from whom you turned in disgust,
Eze 23:29 and they shall deal with you in hatred and take away all the fruit of your labor and leave you naked
and bare, and the nakedness of your whoring shall be uncovered. Your lewdness and your whoring
Eze 23:30 have brought this upon you, because you played the whore with the nations and defiled yourself with
their idols.
Eze 23:31 You have gone the way of your sister; therefore I will give her cup into your hand.
Eze 23:32 Thus says the Lord GOD: "You shall drink your sister's cup that is deep and large; you shall be
laughed at and held in derision, for it contains much;
Eze 23:33 you will be filled with drunkenness and sorrow. A cup of horror and desolation, the cup of your sister
Samaria;
Eze 23:34 you shall drink it and drain it out, and gnaw its shards, and tear your breasts; for I have spoken,
declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 23:35 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you have forgotten me and cast me behind your back,
you yourself must bear the consequences of your lewdness and whoring."
Eze 23:36 The LORD said to me: "Son of man, will you judge Oholah and Oholibah? Declare to them their
abominations.
Eze 23:37 For they have committed adultery, and blood is on their hands. With their idols they have committed
adultery, and they have even offered up to them for food the children whom they had borne to me.
Eze 23:38 Moreover, this they have done to me: they have defiled my sanctuary on the same day and profaned
my Sabbaths.
Eze 23:39 For when they had slaughtered their children in sacrifice to their idols, on the same day they came
into my sanctuary to profane it. And behold, this is what they did in my house.
Eze 23:40 They even sent for men to come from far, to whom a messenger was sent; and behold, they came.
For them you bathed yourself, painted your eyes, and adorned yourself with ornaments.
Eze 23:41 You sat on a stately couch, with a table spread before it on which you had placed my incense and my
oil.
Eze 23:42 The sound of a carefree multitude was with her; and with men of the common sort drunkards were
brought from the wilderness; and they put bracelets on the hands of the women, and beautiful crowns on their
heads.
Eze 23:43 "Then I said of her who was worn out by adultery, Now they will continue to use her for a whore, even
her!
Eze 23:44 For they have gone in to her, as men go in to a prostitute. Thus they went in to Oholah and to
Oholibah, lewd women!
Eze 23:45 But righteous men shall pass judgment on them with the sentence of adulteresses, and with the
sentence of women who shed blood, because they are adulteresses, and blood is on their hands."
Eze 23:46 For thus says the Lord GOD: "Bring up a vast host against them, and make them an object of terror
and a plunder.
Eze 23:47 And the host shall stone them and cut them down with their swords. They shall kill their sons and
their daughters, and burn up their houses.
Eze 23:48 Thus will I put an end to lewdness in the land, that all women may take warning and not commit
lewdness as you have done.
Eze 23:49 And they shall return your lewdness upon you, and you shall bear the penalty for your sinful idolatry,
and you shall know that I am the Lord GOD."
Eze 24:1 In the ninth year, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 24:2 "Son of man, write down the name of this day, this very day. The king of Babylon has laid siege to
Jerusalem this very day.
Eze 24:3 And utter a parable to the rebellious house and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: "Set on the pot,
set it on; pour in water also;
Eze 24:4 put in it the pieces of meat, all the good pieces, the thigh and the shoulder; fill it with choice bones.Eze 24:5 Take the choicest one of the flock; pile the logs under it; boil it well; seethe also its bones in it.
Eze 24:6 "Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Woe to the bloody city, to the pot whose corrosion is in it, and
whose corrosion has not gone out of it! Take out of it piece after piece, without making any choice.
Eze 24:7 For the blood she has shed is in her midst; she put it on the bare rock; she did not pour it out on the
ground to cover it with dust.
Eze 24:8 To rouse my wrath, to take vengeance, I have set on the bare rock the blood she has shed, that it may
not be covered.
Eze 24:9 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Woe to the bloody city! I also will make the pile great.
Eze 24:10 Heap on the logs, kindle the fire, boil the meat well, mix in the spices, and let the bones be burned
up.
Eze 24:11 Then set it empty upon the coals, that it may become hot, and its copper may burn, that its
uncleanness may be melted in it, its corrosion consumed.
Eze 24:12 She has wearied herself with toil; its abundant corrosion does not go out of it. Into the fire with its
corrosion!
Eze 24:13 On account of your unclean lewdness, because I would have cleansed you and you were not
cleansed from your uncleanness, you shall not be cleansed anymore till I have satisfied my fury upon you.
Eze 24:14 I am the LORD. I have spoken; it shall come to pass; I will do it. I will not go back; I will not spare; I
will not relent; according to your ways and your deeds you will be judged, declares the Lord GOD."
Eze 24:15 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 24:16 "Son of man, behold, I am about to take the delight of your eyes away from you at a stroke; yet you
shall not mourn or weep, nor shall your tears run down.
Eze 24:17 Sigh, but not aloud; make no mourning for the dead. Bind on your turban, and put your shoes on your
feet; do not cover your lips, nor eat the bread of men."
Eze 24:18 So I spoke to the people in the morning, and at evening my wife died. And on the next morning I did
as I was commanded.
Eze 24:19 And the people said to me, "Will you not tell us what these things mean for us, that you are acting
thus?"
Eze 24:20 Then I said to them, "The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 24:21 'Say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will profane my sanctuary, the pride of
your power, the delight of your eyes, and the yearning of your soul, and your sons and your daughters whom you
left behind shall fall by the sword.
Eze 24:22 And you shall do as I have done; you shall not cover your lips, nor eat the bread of men.
Eze 24:23 Your turbans shall be on your heads and your shoes on your feet; you shall not mourn or weep, but
you shall rot away in your iniquities and groan to one another.
Eze 24:24 Thus shall Ezekiel be to you a sign; according to all that he has done you shall do. When this comes,
then you will know that I am the Lord GOD.'
Eze 24:25 "As for you, son of man, surely on the day when I take from them their stronghold, their joy and glory,
the delight of their eyes and their soul's desire, and also their sons and daughters,
Eze 24:26 on that day a fugitive will come to you to report to you the news.
Eze 24:27 On that day your mouth will be opened to the fugitive, and you shall speak and be no longer mute. So
you will be a sign to them, and they will know that I am the LORD."
Eze 25:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 25:2 "Son of man, set your face toward the Ammonites and prophesy against them.
Eze 25:3 Say to the Ammonites, Hear the word of the Lord GOD: Thus says the Lord GOD, Because you said,
'Aha!' over my sanctuary when it was profaned, and over the land of Israel when it was made desolate, and over
the house of Judah when they went into exile,
Eze 25:4 therefore behold, I am handing you over to the people of the East for a possession, and they shall set
their encampments among you and make their dwellings in your midst. They shall eat your fruit, and they shall
drink your milk.
Eze 25:5 I will make Rabbah a pasture for camels and Ammon a fold for flocks. Then you will know that I am the
LORD.
Eze 25:6 For thus says the Lord GOD: Because you have clapped your hands and stamped your feet and
rejoiced with all the malice within your soul against the land of Israel,
Eze 25:7 therefore, behold, I have stretched out my hand against you, and will hand you over as plunder to the
nations. And I will cut you off from the peoples and will make you perish out of the countries; I will destroy you.
Then you will know that I am the LORD.
Eze 25:8 "Thus says the Lord GOD: Because Moab and Seir said, 'Behold, the house of Judah is like all the
other nations,'
Eze 25:9 therefore I will lay open the flank of Moab from the cities, from its cities on its frontier, the glory of thecountry, Bethjeshimoth, Baal-meon, and Kiriathaim.
Eze 25:10 I will give it along with the Ammonites to the people of the East as a possession, that the Ammonites
may be remembered no more among the nations,
Eze 25:11 and I will execute judgments upon Moab. Then they will know that I am the LORD.
Eze 25:12 "Thus says the Lord GOD: Because Edom acted revengefully against the house of Judah and has
grievously offended in taking vengeance on them,
Eze 25:13 therefore thus says the Lord GOD, I will stretch out my hand against Edom and cut off from it man
and beast. And I will make it desolate; from Teman even to Dedan they shall fall by the sword.
Eze 25:14 And I will lay my vengeance upon Edom by the hand of my people Israel, and they shall do in Edom
according to my anger and according to my wrath, and they shall know my vengeance, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 25:15 "Thus says the Lord GOD: Because the Philistines acted revengefully and took vengeance with
malice of soul to destroy in never-ending enmity,
Eze 25:16 therefore thus says the Lord GOD, Behold, I will stretch out my hand against the Philistines, and I will
cut off the Cherethites and destroy the rest of the seacoast.
Eze 25:17 I will execute great vengeance on them with wrathful rebukes. Then they will know that I am the
LORD, when I lay my vengeance upon them."
Eze 26:1 In the eleventh year, on the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 26:2 "Son of man, because Tyre said concerning Jerusalem, 'Aha, the gate of the peoples is broken; it has
swung open to me. I shall be replenished, now that she is laid waste,'
Eze 26:3 therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against you, O Tyre, and will bring up many nations
against you, as the sea brings up its waves.
Eze 26:4 They shall destroy the walls of Tyre and break down her towers, and I will scrape her soil from her and
make her a bare rock.
Eze 26:5 She shall be in the midst of the sea a place for the spreading of nets, for I have spoken, declares the
Lord GOD. And she shall become plunder for the nations,
Eze 26:6 and her daughters on the mainland shall be killed by the sword. Then they will know that I am the
LORD.
Eze 26:7 "For thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will bring against Tyre from the north Nebuchadnezzar king of
Babylon, king of kings, with horses and chariots, and with horsemen and a host of many soldiers.
Eze 26:8 He will kill with the sword your daughters on the mainland. He will set up a siege wall against you and
throw up a mound against you, and raise a roof of shields against you.
Eze 26:9 He will direct the shock of his battering rams against your walls, and with his axes he will break down
your towers.
Eze 26:10 His horses will be so many that their dust will cover you. Your walls will shake at the noise of the
horsemen and wagons and chariots, when he enters your gates as men enter a city that has been breached.
Eze 26:11 With the hoofs of his horses he will trample all your streets. He will kill your people with the sword,
and your mighty pillars will fall to the ground.
Eze 26:12 They will plunder your riches and loot your merchandise. They will break down your walls and
destroy your pleasant houses. Your stones and timber and soil they will cast into the midst of the waters.
Eze 26:13 And I will stop the music of your songs, and the sound of your lyres shall be heard no more.
Eze 26:14 I will make you a bare rock. You shall be a place for the spreading of nets. You shall never be rebuilt,
for I am the LORD; I have spoken, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 26:15 "Thus says the Lord GOD to Tyre: Will not the coastlands shake at the sound of your fall, when the
wounded groan, when slaughter is made in your midst?
Eze 26:16 Then all the princes of the sea will step down from their thrones and remove their robes and strip off
their embroidered garments. They will clothe themselves with trembling; they will sit on the ground and tremble
every moment and be appalled at you.
Eze 26:17 And they will raise a lamentation over you and say to you, "' How you have perished, you who were
inhabited from the seas, O city renowned, who was mighty on the sea; she and her inhabitants imposed their
terror on all her inhabitants!
Eze 26:18 Now the coastlands tremble on the day of your fall, and the coastlands that are on the sea are
dismayed at your passing.'
Eze 26:19 "For thus says the Lord GOD: When I make you a city laid waste, like the cities that are not inhabited,
when I bring up the deep over you, and the great waters cover you,
Eze 26:20 then I will make you go down with those who go down to the pit, to the people of old, and I will make
you to dwell in the world below, among ruins from of old, with those who go down to the pit, so that you will not
be inhabited; but I will set beauty in the land of the living.
Eze 26:21 I will bring you to a dreadful end, and you shall be no more. Though you be sought for, you will never
be found again, declares the Lord GOD."Eze 27:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 27:2 "Now you, son of man, raise a lamentation over Tyre,
Eze 27:3 and say to Tyre, who dwells at the entrances to the sea, merchant of the peoples to many coastlands,
thus says the Lord GOD: "O Tyre, you have said, 'I am perfect in beauty.'
Eze 27:4 Your borders are in the heart of the seas; your builders made perfect your beauty.
Eze 27:5 They made all your planks of fir trees from Senir; they took a cedar from Lebanon to make a mast for
you.
Eze 27:6 Of oaks of Bashan they made your oars; they made your deck of pines from the coasts of Cyprus,
inlaid with ivory.
Eze 27:7 Of fine embroidered linen from Egypt was your sail, serving as your banner; blue and purple from the
coasts of Elishah was your awning.
Eze 27:8 The inhabitants of Sidon and Arvad were your rowers; your skilled men, O Tyre, were in you; they
were your pilots.
Eze 27:9 The elders of Gebal and her skilled men were in you, caulking your seams; all the ships of the sea with
their mariners were in you to barter for your wares.
Eze 27:10 "Persia and Lud and Put were in your army as your men of war. They hung the shield and helmet in
you; they gave you splendor.
Eze 27:11 Men of Arvad and Helech were on your walls all around, and men of Gamad were in your towers.
They hung their shields on your walls all around; they made perfect your beauty.
Eze 27:12 "Tarshish did business with you because of your great wealth of every kind; silver, iron, tin, and lead
they exchanged for your wares.
Eze 27:13 Javan, Tubal, and Meshech traded with you; they exchanged human beings and vessels of bronze
for your merchandise.
Eze 27:14 From Beth-togarmah they exchanged horses, war horses, and mules for your wares.
Eze 27:15 The men of Dedan traded with you. Many coastlands were your own special markets; they brought
you in payment ivory tusks and ebony.
Eze 27:16 Syria did business with you because of your abundant goods; they exchanged for your wares
emeralds, purple, embroidered work, fine linen, coral, and ruby.
Eze 27:17 Judah and the land of Israel traded with you; they exchanged for your merchandise wheat of Minnith,
meal, honey, oil, and balm.
Eze 27:18 Damascus did business with you for your abundant goods, because of your great wealth of every
kind; wine of Helbon and wool of Sahar
Eze 27:19 and casks of wine from Uzal they exchanged for your wares; wrought iron, cassia, and calamus were
bartered for your merchandise.
Eze 27:20 Dedan traded with you in saddlecloths for riding.
Eze 27:21 Arabia and all the princes of Kedar were your favored dealers in lambs, rams, and goats; in these
they did business with you.
Eze 27:22 The traders of Sheba and Raamah traded with you; they exchanged for your wares the best of all
kinds of spices and all precious stones and gold.
Eze 27:23 Haran, Canneh, Eden, traders of Sheba, Asshur, and Chilmad traded with you.
Eze 27:24 In your market these traded with you in choice garments, in clothes of blue and embroidered work,
and in carpets of colored material, bound with cords and made secure.
Eze 27:25 The ships of Tarshish traveled for you with your merchandise. So you were filled and heavily laden in
the heart of the seas.
Eze 27:26 "Your rowers have brought you out into the high seas. The east wind has wrecked you in the heart of
the seas.
Eze 27:27 Your riches, your wares, your merchandise, your mariners and your pilots, your caulkers, your
dealers in merchandise, and all your men of war who are in you, with all your crew that is in your midst, sink into
the heart of the seas on the day of your fall.
Eze 27:28 At the sound of the cry of your pilots the countryside shakes,
Eze 27:29 and down from their ships come all who handle the oar. The mariners and all the pilots of the sea
stand on the land
Eze 27:30 and shout aloud over you and cry out bitterly. They cast dust on their heads and wallow in ashes;
Eze 27:31 they make themselves bald for you and put sackcloth on their waist, and they weep over you in
bitterness of soul, with bitter mourning.
Eze 27:32 In their wailing they raise a lamentation for you and lament over you: 'Who is like Tyre, like one
destroyed in the midst of the sea?
Eze 27:33 When your wares came from the seas, you satisfied many peoples; with your abundant wealth and
merchandise you enriched the kings of the earth.Eze 27:34 Now you are wrecked by the seas, in the depths of the waters; your merchandise and all your crew in
your midst have sunk with you.
Eze 27:35 All the inhabitants of the coastlands are appalled at you, and the hair of their kings bristles with
horror; their faces are convulsed.
Eze 27:36 The merchants among the peoples hiss at you; you have come to a dreadful end and shall be no
more forever.'"
Eze 28:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 28:2 "Son of man, say to the prince of Tyre, Thus says the Lord GOD: "Because your heart is proud, and
you have said, 'I am a god, I sit in the seat of the gods, in the heart of the seas,' yet you are but a man, and no
god, though you make your heart like the heart of a godEze 28:3 you are indeed wiser than Daniel; no secret is hidden from you;
Eze 28:4 by your wisdom and your understanding you have made wealth for yourself, and have gathered gold
and silver into your treasuries;
Eze 28:5 by your great wisdom in your trade you have increased your wealth, and your heart has become proud
in your wealthEze 28:6 therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you make your heart like the heart of a god,
Eze 28:7 therefore, behold, I will bring foreigners upon you, the most ruthless of the nations; and they shall draw
their swords against the beauty of your wisdom and defile your splendor.
Eze 28:8 They shall thrust you down into the pit, and you shall die the death of the slain in the heart of the seas.
Eze 28:9 Will you still say, 'I am a god,' in the presence of those who kill you, though you are but a man, and no
god, in the hands of those who slay you?
Eze 28:10 You shall die the death of the uncircumcised by the hand of foreigners; for I have spoken, declares
the Lord GOD."
Eze 28:11 Moreover, the word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 28:12 "Son of man, raise a lamentation over the king of Tyre, and say to him, Thus says the Lord GOD:
"You were the signet of perfection, full of wisdom and perfect in beauty.
Eze 28:13 You were in Eden, the garden of God; every precious stone was your covering, sardius, topaz, and
diamond, beryl, onyx, and jasper, sapphire, emerald, and carbuncle; and crafted in gold were your settings and
your engravings. On the day that you were created they were prepared.
Eze 28:14 You were an anointed guardian cherub. I placed you; you were on the holy mountain of God; in the
midst of the stones of fire you walked.
Eze 28:15 You were blameless in your ways from the day you were created, till unrighteousness was found in
you.
Eze 28:16 In the abundance of your trade you were filled with violence in your midst, and you sinned; so I cast
you as a profane thing from the mountain of God, and I destroyed you, O guardian cherub, from the midst of the
stones of fire.
Eze 28:17 Your heart was proud because of your beauty; you corrupted your wisdom for the sake of your
splendor. I cast you to the ground; I exposed you before kings, to feast their eyes on you.
Eze 28:18 By the multitude of your iniquities, in the unrighteousness of your trade you profaned your
sanctuaries; so I brought fire out from your midst; it consumed you, and I turned you to ashes on the earth in the
sight of all who saw you.
Eze 28:19 All who know you among the peoples are appalled at you; you have come to a dreadful end and shall
be no more forever."
Eze 28:20 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 28:21 "Son of man, set your face toward Sidon, and prophesy against her
Eze 28:22 and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I am against you, O Sidon, and I will manifest my glory in
your midst. And they shall know that I am the LORD when I execute judgments in her and manifest my holiness
in her;
Eze 28:23 for I will send pestilence into her, and blood into her streets; and the slain shall fall in her midst, by
the sword that is against her on every side. Then they will know that I am the LORD.
Eze 28:24 "And for the house of Israel there shall be no more a brier to prick or a thorn to hurt them among all
their neighbors who have treated them with contempt. Then they will know that I am the Lord GOD.
Eze 28:25 "Thus says the Lord GOD: When I gather the house of Israel from the peoples among whom they are
scattered, and manifest my holiness in them in the sight of the nations, then they shall dwell in their own land
that I gave to my servant Jacob.
Eze 28:26 And they shall dwell securely in it, and they shall build houses and plant vineyards. They shall dwell
securely, when I execute judgments upon all their neighbors who have treated them with contempt. Then they
will know that I am the LORD their God."
Eze 29:1 In the tenth year, in the tenth month, on the twelfth day of the month, the word of the LORD came tome:
Eze 29:2 "Son of man, set your face against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him and against all
Egypt;
Eze 29:3 speak, and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I am against you, Pharaoh king of Egypt, the great
dragon that lies in the midst of his streams, that says, 'My Nile is my own; I made it for myself.'
Eze 29:4 I will put hooks in your jaws, and make the fish of your streams stick to your scales; and I will draw you
up out of the midst of your streams, with all the fish of your streams that stick to your scales.
Eze 29:5 And I will cast you out into the wilderness, you and all the fish of your streams; you shall fall on the
open field, and not be brought together or gathered. To the beasts of the earth and to the birds of the heavens I
give you as food.
Eze 29:6 Then all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I am the LORD. "Because you have been a staff of
reed to the house of Israel;
Eze 29:7 when they grasped you with the hand, you broke and tore all their shoulders; and when they leaned on
you, you broke and made all their loins to shake.
Eze 29:8 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will bring a sword upon you, and will cut off from you
man and beast,
Eze 29:9 and the land of Egypt shall be a desolation and a waste. Then they will know that I am the LORD.
"Because you said, 'The Nile is mine, and I made it,'
Eze 29:10 therefore, behold, I am against you and against your streams, and I will make the land of Egypt an
utter waste and desolation, from Migdol to Syene, as far as the border of Cush.
Eze 29:11 No foot of man shall pass through it, and no foot of beast shall pass through it; it shall be uninhabited
forty years.
Eze 29:12 And I will make the land of Egypt a desolation in the midst of desolated countries, and her cities shall
be a desolation forty years among cities that are laid waste. I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and
disperse them through the countries.
Eze 29:13 "For thus says the Lord GOD: At the end of forty years I will gather the Egyptians from the peoples
among whom they were scattered,
Eze 29:14 and I will restore the fortunes of Egypt and bring them back to the land of Pathros, the land of their
origin, and there they shall be a lowly kingdom.
Eze 29:15 It shall be the most lowly of the kingdoms, and never again exalt itself above the nations. And I will
make them so small that they will never again rule over the nations.
Eze 29:16 And it shall never again be the reliance of the house of Israel, recalling their iniquity, when they turn
to them for aid. Then they will know that I am the Lord GOD."
Eze 29:17 In the twenty-seventh year, in the first month, on the first day of the month, the word of the LORD
came to me:
Eze 29:18 "Son of man, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon made his army labor hard against Tyre. Every head
was made bald, and every shoulder was rubbed bare, yet neither he nor his army got anything from Tyre to pay
for the labor that he had performed against her.
Eze 29:19 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will give the land of Egypt to Nebuchadnezzar king of
Babylon; and he shall carry off its wealth and despoil it and plunder it; and it shall be the wages for his army.
Eze 29:20 I have given him the land of Egypt as his payment for which he labored, because they worked for me,
declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 29:21 "On that day I will cause a horn to spring up for the house of Israel, and I will open your lips among
them. Then they will know that I am the LORD."
Eze 30:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 30:2 "Son of man, prophesy, and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: "Wail, 'Alas for the day!'
Eze 30:3 For the day is near, the day of the LORD is near; it will be a day of clouds, a time of doom for the
nations.
Eze 30:4 A sword shall come upon Egypt, and anguish shall be in Cush, when the slain fall in Egypt, and her
wealth is carried away, and her foundations are torn down.
Eze 30:5 Cush, and Put, and Lud, and all Arabia, and Libya, and the people of the land that is in league, shall
fall with them by the sword.
Eze 30:6 "Thus says the LORD: Those who support Egypt shall fall, and her proud might shall come down; from
Migdol to Syene they shall fall within her by the sword, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 30:7 And they shall be desolated in the midst of desolated countries, and their cities shall be in the midst of
cities that are laid waste.
Eze 30:8 Then they will know that I am the LORD, when I have set fire to Egypt, and all her helpers are broken.
Eze 30:9 "On that day messengers shall go out from me in ships to terrify the unsuspecting people of Cush, and
anguish shall come upon them on the day of Egypt's doom; for, behold, it comes!Eze 30:10 "Thus says the Lord GOD: "I will put an end to the wealth of Egypt, by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar
king of Babylon.
Eze 30:11 He and his people with him, the most ruthless of nations, shall be brought in to destroy the land, and
they shall draw their swords against Egypt and fill the land with the slain.
Eze 30:12 And I will dry up the Nile and will sell the land into the hand of evildoers; I will bring desolation upon
the land and everything in it, by the hand of foreigners; I am the LORD; I have spoken.
Eze 30:13 "Thus says the Lord GOD: "I will destroy the idols and put an end to the images in Memphis; there
shall no longer be a prince from the land of Egypt; so I will put fear in the land of Egypt.
Eze 30:14 I will make Pathros a desolation and will set fire to Zoan and will execute judgments on Thebes.
Eze 30:15 And I will pour out my wrath on Pelusium, the stronghold of Egypt, and cut off the multitude of
Thebes.
Eze 30:16 And I will set fire to Egypt; Pelusium shall be in great agony; Thebes shall be breached, and
Memphis shall face enemies by day.
Eze 30:17 The young men of On and of Pibeseth shall fall by the sword, and the women shall go into captivity.
Eze 30:18 At Tehaphnehes the day shall be dark, when I break there the yoke bars of Egypt, and her proud
might shall come to an end in her; she shall be covered by a cloud, and her daughters shall go into captivity.
Eze 30:19 Thus I will execute judgments on Egypt. Then they will know that I am the LORD."
Eze 30:20 In the eleventh year, in the first month, on the seventh day of the month, the word of the LORD came
to me:
Eze 30:21 "Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and behold, it has not been bound up,
to heal it by binding it with a bandage, so that it may become strong to wield the sword.
Eze 30:22 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against Pharaoh king of Egypt and will break his
arms, both the strong arm and the one that was broken, and I will make the sword fall from his hand.
Eze 30:23 I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them through the countries.
Eze 30:24 And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon and put my sword in his hand, but I will break
the arms of Pharaoh, and he will groan before him like a man mortally wounded.
Eze 30:25 I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, but the arms of Pharaoh shall fall. Then they shall
know that I am the LORD, when I put my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon and he stretches it out
against the land of Egypt.
Eze 30:26 And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them throughout the countries. Then
they will know that I am the LORD."
Eze 31:1 In the eleventh year, in the third month, on the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came to
me:
Eze 31:2 "Son of man, say to Pharaoh king of Egypt and to his multitude: "Whom are you like in your
greatness?
Eze 31:3 Behold, Assyria was a cedar in Lebanon, with beautiful branches and forest shade, and of towering
height, its top among the clouds.
Eze 31:4 The waters nourished it; the deep made it grow tall, making its rivers flow around the place of its
planting, sending forth its streams to all the trees of the field.
Eze 31:5 So it towered high above all the trees of the field; its boughs grew large and its branches long from
abundant water in its shoots.
Eze 31:6 All the birds of the heavens made their nests in its boughs; under its branches all the beasts of the
field gave birth to their young, and under its shadow lived all great nations.
Eze 31:7 It was beautiful in its greatness, in the length of its branches; for its roots went down to abundant
waters.
Eze 31:8 The cedars in the garden of God could not rival it, nor the fir trees equal its boughs; neither were the
plane trees like its branches; no tree in the garden of God was its equal in beauty.
Eze 31:9 I made it beautiful in the mass of its branches, and all the trees of Eden envied it, that were in the
garden of God.
Eze 31:10 "Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because it towered high and set its top among the clouds, and
its heart was proud of its height,
Eze 31:11 I will give it into the hand of a mighty one of the nations. He shall surely deal with it as its wickedness
deserves. I have cast it out.
Eze 31:12 Foreigners, the most ruthless of nations, have cut it down and left it. On the mountains and in all the
valleys its branches have fallen, and its boughs have been broken in all the ravines of the land, and all the
peoples of the earth have gone away from its shadow and left it.
Eze 31:13 On its fallen trunk dwell all the birds of the heavens, and on its branches are all the beasts of the
field.
Eze 31:14 All this is in order that no trees by the waters may grow to towering height or set their tops among theclouds, and that no trees that drink water may reach up to them in height. For they are all given over to death, to
the world below, among the children of man, with those who go down to the pit.
Eze 31:15 "Thus says the Lord GOD: On the day the cedar went down to Sheol I caused mourning; I closed the
deep over it, and restrained its rivers, and many waters were stopped. I clothed Lebanon in gloom for it, and all
the trees of the field fainted because of it.
Eze 31:16 I made the nations quake at the sound of its fall, when I cast it down to Sheol with those who go
down to the pit. And all the trees of Eden, the choice and best of Lebanon, all that drink water, were comforted in
the world below.
Eze 31:17 They also went down to Sheol with it, to those who are slain by the sword; yes, those who were its
arm, who lived under its shadow among the nations.
Eze 31:18 "Whom are you thus like in glory and in greatness among the trees of Eden? You shall be brought
down with the trees of Eden to the world below. You shall lie among the uncircumcised, with those who are slain
by the sword. "This is Pharaoh and all his multitude, declares the Lord GOD."
Eze 32:1 In the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, on the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came to
me:
Eze 32:2 "Son of man, raise a lamentation over Pharaoh king of Egypt and say to him: "You consider yourself a
lion of the nations, but you are like a dragon in the seas; you burst forth in your rivers, trouble the waters with
your feet, and foul their rivers.
Eze 32:3 Thus says the Lord GOD: I will throw my net over you with a host of many peoples, and they will haul
you up in my dragnet.
Eze 32:4 And I will cast you on the ground; on the open field I will fling you, and will cause all the birds of the
heavens to settle on you, and I will gorge the beasts of the whole earth with you.
Eze 32:5 I will strew your flesh upon the mountains and fill the valleys with your carcass.
Eze 32:6 I will drench the land even to the mountains with your flowing blood, and the ravines will be full of you.
Eze 32:7 When I blot you out, I will cover the heavens and make their stars dark; I will cover the sun with a
cloud, and the moon shall not give its light.
Eze 32:8 All the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over you, and put darkness on your land, declares the
Lord GOD.
Eze 32:9 "I will trouble the hearts of many peoples, when I bring your destruction among the nations, into the
countries that you have not known.
Eze 32:10 I will make many peoples appalled at you, and the hair of their kings shall bristle with horror because
of you, when I brandish my sword before them. They shall tremble every moment, every one for his own life, on
the day of your downfall.
Eze 32:11 "For thus says the Lord GOD: The sword of the king of Babylon shall come upon you.
Eze 32:12 I will cause your multitude to fall by the swords of mighty ones, all of them most ruthless of nations.
"They shall bring to ruin the pride of Egypt, and all its multitude shall perish.
Eze 32:13 I will destroy all its beasts from beside many waters; and no foot of man shall trouble them anymore,
nor shall the hoofs of beasts trouble them.
Eze 32:14 Then I will make their waters clear, and cause their rivers to run like oil, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 32:15 When I make the land of Egypt desolate, and when the land is desolate of all that fills it, when I strike
down all who dwell in it, then they will know that I am the LORD.
Eze 32:16 This is a lamentation that shall be chanted; the daughters of the nations shall chant it; over Egypt,
and over all her multitude, shall they chant it, declares the Lord GOD."
Eze 32:17 In the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, on the fifteenth day of the month, the word of the LORD
came to me:
Eze 32:18 "Son of man, wail over the multitude of Egypt, and send them down, her and the daughters of
majestic nations, to the world below, to those who have gone down to the pit:
Eze 32:19 'Whom do you surpass in beauty? Go down and be laid to rest with the uncircumcised.'
Eze 32:20 They shall fall amid those who are slain by the sword. Egypt is delivered to the sword; drag her away,
and all her multitudes.
Eze 32:21 The mighty chiefs shall speak of them, with their helpers, out of the midst of Sheol: 'They have come
down, they lie still, the uncircumcised, slain by the sword.'
Eze 32:22 "Assyria is there, and all her company, its graves all around it, all of them slain, fallen by the sword,
Eze 32:23 whose graves are set in the uttermost parts of the pit; and her company is all around her grave, all of
them slain, fallen by the sword, who spread terror in the land of the living.
Eze 32:24 "Elam is there, and all her multitude around her grave; all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who
went down uncircumcised into the world below, who spread their terror in the land of the living; and they bear
their shame with those who go down to the pit.
Eze 32:25 They have made her a bed among the slain with all her multitude, her graves all around it, all of themuncircumcised, slain by the sword; for terror of them was spread in the land of the living, and they bear their
shame with those who go down to the pit; they are placed among the slain.
Eze 32:26 "Meshech-Tubal is there, and all her multitude, her graves all around it, all of them uncircumcised,
slain by the sword; for they spread their terror in the land of the living.
Eze 32:27 And they do not lie with the mighty, the fallen from among the uncircumcised, who went down to
Sheol with their weapons of war, whose swords were laid under their heads, and whose iniquities are upon their
bones; for the terror of the mighty men was in the land of the living.
Eze 32:28 But as for you, you shall be broken and lie among the uncircumcised, with those who are slain by the
sword.
Eze 32:29 "Edom is there, her kings and all her princes, who for all their might are laid with those who are killed
by the sword; they lie with the uncircumcised, with those who go down to the pit.
Eze 32:30 "The princes of the north are there, all of them, and all the Sidonians, who have gone down in shame
with the slain, for all the terror that they caused by their might; they lie uncircumcised with those who are slain by
the sword, and bear their shame with those who go down to the pit.
Eze 32:31 "When Pharaoh sees them, he will be comforted for all his multitude, Pharaoh and all his army, slain
by the sword, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 32:32 For I spread terror in the land of the living; and he shall be laid to rest among the uncircumcised, with
those who are slain by the sword, Pharaoh and all his multitude, declares the Lord GOD."
Eze 33:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 33:2 "Son of man, speak to your people and say to them, If I bring the sword upon a land, and the people of
the land take a man from among them, and make him their watchman,
Eze 33:3 and if he sees the sword coming upon the land and blows the trumpet and warns the people,
Eze 33:4 then if anyone who hears the sound of the trumpet does not take warning, and the sword comes and
takes him away, his blood shall be upon his own head.
Eze 33:5 He heard the sound of the trumpet and did not take warning; his blood shall be upon himself. But if he
had taken warning, he would have saved his life.
Eze 33:6 But if the watchman sees the sword coming and does not blow the trumpet, so that the people are not
warned, and the sword comes and takes any one of them, that person is taken away in his iniquity, but his blood
I will require at the watchman's hand.
Eze 33:7 "So you, son of man, I have made a watchman for the house of Israel. Whenever you hear a word
from my mouth, you shall give them warning from me.
Eze 33:8 If I say to the wicked, O wicked one, you shall surely die, and you do not speak to warn the wicked to
turn from his way, that wicked person shall die in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand.
Eze 33:9 But if you warn the wicked to turn from his way, and he does not turn from his way, that person shall
die in his iniquity, but you will have delivered your soul.
Eze 33:10 "And you, son of man, say to the house of Israel, Thus have you said: 'Surely our transgressions and
our sins are upon us, and we rot away because of them. How then can we live?'
Eze 33:11 Say to them, As I live, declares the Lord GOD, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that
the wicked turn from his way and live; turn back, turn back from your evil ways, for why will you die, O house of
Israel?
Eze 33:12 "And you, son of man, say to your people, The righteousness of the righteous shall not deliver him
when he transgresses, and as for the wickedness of the wicked, he shall not fall by it when he turns from his
wickedness, and the righteous shall not be able to live by his righteousness when he sins.
Eze 33:13 Though I say to the righteous that he shall surely live, yet if he trusts in his righteousness and does
injustice, none of his righteous deeds shall be remembered, but in his injustice that he has done he shall die.
Eze 33:14 Again, though I say to the wicked, 'You shall surely die,' yet if he turns from his sin and does what is
just and right,
Eze 33:15 if the wicked restores the pledge, gives back what he has taken by robbery, and walks in the statutes
of life, not doing injustice, he shall surely live; he shall not die.
Eze 33:16 None of the sins that he has committed shall be remembered against him. He has done what is just
and right; he shall surely live.
Eze 33:17 "Yet your people say, 'The way of the Lord is not just,' when it is their own way that is not just.
Eze 33:18 When the righteous turns from his righteousness and does injustice, he shall die for it.
Eze 33:19 And when the wicked turns from his wickedness and does what is just and right, he shall live by
them.
Eze 33:20 Yet you say, 'The way of the Lord is not just.' O house of Israel, I will judge each of you according to
his ways."
Eze 33:21 In the twelfth year of our exile, in the tenth month, on the fifth day of the month, a fugitive from
Jerusalem came to me and said, "The city has been struck down."Eze 33:22 Now the hand of the LORD had been upon me the evening before the fugitive came; and he had
opened my mouth by the time the man came to me in the morning, so my mouth was opened, and I was no
longer mute.
Eze 33:23 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 33:24 "Son of man, the inhabitants of these waste places in the land of Israel keep saying, 'Abraham was
only one man, yet he got possession of the land; but we are many; the land is surely given us to possess.'
Eze 33:25 Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: You eat flesh with the blood and lift up your eyes to
your idols and shed blood; shall you then possess the land?
Eze 33:26 You rely on the sword, you commit abominations, and each of you defiles his neighbor's wife; shall
you then possess the land?
Eze 33:27 Say this to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: As I live, surely those who are in the waste places shall
fall by the sword, and whoever is in the open field I will give to the beasts to be devoured, and those who are in
strongholds and in caves shall die by pestilence.
Eze 33:28 And I will make the land a desolation and a waste, and her proud might shall come to an end, and the
mountains of Israel shall be so desolate that none will pass through.
Eze 33:29 Then they will know that I am the LORD, when I have made the land a desolation and a waste
because of all their abominations that they have committed.
Eze 33:30 "As for you, son of man, your people who talk together about you by the walls and at the doors of the
houses, say to one another, each to his brother, 'Come, and hear what the word is that comes from the LORD.'
Eze 33:31 And they come to you as people come, and they sit before you as my people, and they hear what
you say but they will not do it; for with lustful talk in their mouths they act; their heart is set on their gain.
Eze 33:32 And behold, you are to them like one who sings lustful songs with a beautiful voice and plays well on
an instrument, for they hear what you say, but they will not do it.
Eze 33:33 When this comes- and come it will!- then they will know that a prophet has been among them."
Eze 34:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 34:2 "Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel; prophesy, and say to them, even to the
shepherds, Thus says the Lord GOD: Ah, shepherds of Israel who have been feeding yourselves! Should not
shepherds feed the sheep?
Eze 34:3 You eat the fat, you clothe yourselves with the wool, you slaughter the fat ones, but you do not feed
the sheep.
Eze 34:4 The weak you have not strengthened, the sick you have not healed, the injured you have not bound
up, the strayed you have not brought back, the lost you have not sought, and with force and harshness you have
ruled them.
Eze 34:5 So they were scattered, because there was no shepherd, and they became food for all the wild beasts.
Eze 34:6 My sheep were scattered; they wandered over all the mountains and on every high hill. My sheep
were scattered over all the face of the earth, with none to search or seek for them.
Eze 34:7 "Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the LORD:
Eze 34:8 As I live, declares the Lord GOD, surely because my sheep have become a prey, and my sheep have
become food for all the wild beasts, since there was no shepherd, and because my shepherds have not
searched for my sheep, but the shepherds have fed themselves, and have not fed my sheep,
Eze 34:9 therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the LORD:
Eze 34:10 Thus says the Lord GOD, Behold, I am against the shepherds, and I will require my sheep at their
hand and put a stop to their feeding the sheep. No longer shall the shepherds feed themselves. I will rescue my
sheep from their mouths, that they may not be food for them.
Eze 34:11 "For thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I, I myself will search for my sheep and will seek them out.
Eze 34:12 As a shepherd seeks out his flock when he is among his sheep that have been scattered, so will I
seek out my sheep, and I will rescue them from all places where they have been scattered on a day of clouds
and thick darkness.
Eze 34:13 And I will bring them out from the peoples and gather them from the countries, and will bring them
into their own land. And I will feed them on the mountains of Israel, by the ravines, and in all the inhabited places
of the country.
Eze 34:14 I will feed them with good pasture, and on the mountain heights of Israel shall be their grazing land.
There they shall lie down in good grazing land, and on rich pasture they shall feed on the mountains of Israel.
Eze 34:15 I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep, and I myself will make them lie down, declares the Lord
GOD.
Eze 34:16 I will seek the lost, and I will bring back the strayed, and I will bind up the injured, and I will strengthen
the weak, and the fat and the strong I will destroy. I will feed them in justice.
Eze 34:17 "As for you, my flock, thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I judge between sheep and sheep, between
rams and male goats.Eze 34:18 Is it not enough for you to feed on the good pasture, that you must tread down with your feet the rest
of your pasture; and to drink of clear water, that you must muddy the rest of the water with your feet?
Eze 34:19 And must my sheep eat what you have trodden with your feet, and drink what you have muddied with
your feet?
Eze 34:20 "Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD to them: Behold, I, I myself will judge between the fat sheep and
the lean sheep.
Eze 34:21 Because you push with side and shoulder, and thrust at all the weak with your horns, till you have
scattered them abroad,
Eze 34:22 I will rescue my flock; they shall no longer be a prey. And I will judge between sheep and sheep.
Eze 34:23 And I will set up over them one shepherd, my servant David, and he shall feed them: he shall feed
them and be their shepherd.
Eze 34:24 And I, the LORD, will be their God, and my servant David shall be prince among them. I am the
LORD; I have spoken.
Eze 34:25 "I will make with them a covenant of peace and banish wild beasts from the land, so that they may
dwell securely in the wilderness and sleep in the woods.
Eze 34:26 And I will make them and the places all around my hill a blessing, and I will send down the showers
in their season; they shall be showers of blessing.
Eze 34:27 And the trees of the field shall yield their fruit, and the earth shall yield its increase, and they shall be
secure in their land. And they shall know that I am the LORD, when I break the bars of their yoke, and deliver
them from the hand of those who enslaved them.
Eze 34:28 They shall no more be a prey to the nations, nor shall the beasts of the land devour them. They shall
dwell securely, and none shall make them afraid.
Eze 34:29 And I will provide for them renowned plantations so that they shall no more be consumed with hunger
in the land, and no longer suffer the reproach of the nations.
Eze 34:30 And they shall know that I am the LORD their God with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are
my people, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 34:31 And you are my sheep, human sheep of my pasture, and I am your God, declares the Lord GOD."
Eze 35:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 35:2 "Son of man, set your face against Mount Seir, and prophesy against it,
Eze 35:3 and say to it, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against you, Mount Seir, and I will stretch out my
hand against you, and I will make you a desolation and a waste.
Eze 35:4 I will lay your cities waste, and you shall become a desolation, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
Eze 35:5 Because you cherished perpetual enmity and gave over the people of Israel to the power of the sword
at the time of their calamity, at the time of their final punishment,
Eze 35:6 therefore, as I live, declares the Lord GOD, I will prepare you for blood, and blood shall pursue you;
because you did not hate bloodshed, therefore blood shall pursue you.
Eze 35:7 I will make Mount Seir a waste and a desolation, and I will cut off from it all who come and go.
Eze 35:8 And I will fill its mountains with the slain. On your hills and in your valleys and in all your ravines those
slain with the sword shall fall.
Eze 35:9 I will make you a perpetual desolation, and your cities shall not be inhabited. Then you will know that I
am the LORD.
Eze 35:10 "Because you said, 'These two nations and these two countries shall be mine, and we will take
possession of them'- although the LORD was thereEze 35:11 therefore, as I live, declares the Lord GOD, I will deal with you according to the anger and envy that
you showed because of your hatred against them. And I will make myself known among them, when I judge you.
Eze 35:12 And you shall know that I am the LORD. "I have heard all the revilings that you uttered against the
mountains of Israel, saying, 'They are laid desolate; they are given us to devour.'
Eze 35:13 And you magnified yourselves against me with your mouth, and multiplied your words against me; I
heard it.
Eze 35:14 Thus says the Lord GOD: While the whole earth rejoices, I will make you desolate.
Eze 35:15 As you rejoiced over the inheritance of the house of Israel, because it was desolate, so I will deal with
you; you shall be desolate, Mount Seir, and all Edom, all of it. Then they will know that I am the LORD.
Eze 36:1 "And you, son of man, prophesy to the mountains of Israel, and say, O mountains of Israel, hear the
word of the LORD.
Eze 36:2 Thus says the Lord GOD: Because the enemy said of you, 'Aha!' and, 'The ancient heights have
become our possession,'
Eze 36:3 therefore prophesy, and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Precisely because they made you desolate
and crushed you from all sides, so that you became the possession of the rest of the nations, and you became
the talk and evil gossip of the people,Eze 36:4 therefore, O mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord GOD: Thus says the Lord GOD to the
mountains and the hills, the ravines and the valleys, the desolate wastes and the deserted cities, which have
become a prey and derision to the rest of the nations all around,
Eze 36:5 therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Surely I have spoken in my hot jealousy against the rest of the
nations and against all Edom, who gave my land to themselves as a possession with wholehearted joy and utter
contempt, that they might make its pasturelands a prey.
Eze 36:6 Therefore prophesy concerning the land of Israel, and say to the mountains and hills, to the ravines
and valleys, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I have spoken in my jealous wrath, because you have suffered
the reproach of the nations.
Eze 36:7 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: I swear that the nations that are all around you shall themselves
suffer reproach.
Eze 36:8 "But you, O mountains of Israel, shall shoot forth your branches and yield your fruit to my people
Israel, for they will soon come home.
Eze 36:9 For behold, I am for you, and I will turn to you, and you shall be tilled and sown.
Eze 36:10 And I will multiply people on you, the whole house of Israel, all of it. The cities shall be inhabited and
the waste places rebuilt.
Eze 36:11 And I will multiply on you man and beast, and they shall multiply and be fruitful. And I will cause you
to be inhabited as in your former times, and will do more good to you than ever before. Then you will know that I
am the LORD.
Eze 36:12 I will let people walk on you, even my people Israel. And they shall possess you, and you shall be
their inheritance, and you shall no longer bereave them of children.
Eze 36:13 Thus says the Lord GOD: Because they say to you, 'You devour people, and you bereave your
nation of children,'
Eze 36:14 therefore you shall no longer devour people and no longer bereave your nation of children, declares
the Lord GOD.
Eze 36:15 And I will not let you hear anymore the reproach of the nations, and you shall no longer bear the
disgrace of the peoples and no longer cause your nation to stumble, declares the Lord GOD."
Eze 36:16 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 36:17 "Son of man, when the house of Israel lived in their own land, they defiled it by their ways and their
deeds. Their ways before me were like the uncleanness of a woman in her menstrual impurity.
Eze 36:18 So I poured out my wrath upon them for the blood that they had shed in the land, for the idols with
which they had defiled it.
Eze 36:19 I scattered them among the nations, and they were dispersed through the countries. In accordance
with their ways and their deeds I judged them.
Eze 36:20 But when they came to the nations, wherever they came, they profaned my holy name, in that people
said of them, 'These are the people of the LORD, and yet they had to go out of his land.'
Eze 36:21 But I had concern for my holy name, which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations to
which they came.
Eze 36:22 "Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: It is not for your sake, O house of
Israel, that I am about to act, but for the sake of my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations to
which you came.
Eze 36:23 And I will vindicate the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, and
which you have profaned among them. And the nations will know that I am the LORD, declares the Lord GOD,
when through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes.
Eze 36:24 I will take you from the nations and gather you from all the countries and bring you into your own
land.
Eze 36:25 I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses, and from all
your idols I will cleanse you.
Eze 36:26 And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of
stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh.
Eze 36:27 And I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my
rules.
Eze 36:28 You shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers, and you shall be my people, and I will be your
God.
Eze 36:29 And I will deliver you from all your uncleannesses. And I will summon the grain and make it abundant
and lay no famine upon you.
Eze 36:30 I will make the fruit of the tree and the increase of the field abundant, that you may never again suffer
the disgrace of famine among the nations.
Eze 36:31 Then you will remember your evil ways, and your deeds that were not good, and you will loatheyourselves for your iniquities and your abominations.
Eze 36:32 It is not for your sake that I will act, declares the Lord GOD; let that be known to you. Be ashamed
and confounded for your ways, O house of Israel.
Eze 36:33 "Thus says the Lord GOD: On the day that I cleanse you from all your iniquities, I will cause the cities
to be inhabited, and the waste places shall be rebuilt.
Eze 36:34 And the land that was desolate shall be tilled, instead of being the desolation that it was in the sight
of all who passed by.
Eze 36:35 And they will say, 'This land that was desolate has become like the garden of Eden, and the waste
and desolate and ruined cities are now fortified and inhabited.'
Eze 36:36 Then the nations that are left all around you shall know that I am the LORD; I have rebuilt the ruined
places and replanted that which was desolate. I am the LORD; I have spoken, and I will do it.
Eze 36:37 "Thus says the Lord GOD: This also I will let the house of Israel ask me to do for them: to increase
their people like a flock.
Eze 36:38 Like the flock for sacrifices, like the flock at Jerusalem during her appointed feasts, so shall the waste
cities be filled with flocks of people. Then they will know that I am the LORD."
Eze 37:1 The hand of the LORD was upon me, and he brought me out in the Spirit of the LORD and set me
down in the middle of the valley; it was full of bones.
Eze 37:2 And he led me around among them, and behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley,
and behold, they were very dry.
Eze 37:3 And he said to me, "Son of man, can these bones live?" And I answered, "O Lord GOD, you know."
Eze 37:4 Then he said to me, "Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the
LORD.
Eze 37:5 Thus says the Lord GOD to these bones: Behold, I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live.
Eze 37:6 And I will lay sinews upon you, and will cause flesh to come upon you, and cover you with skin, and
put breath in you, and you shall live, and you shall know that I am the LORD."
Eze 37:7 So I prophesied as I was commanded. And as I prophesied, there was a sound, and behold, a rattling,
and the bones came together, bone to its bone.
Eze 37:8 And I looked, and behold, there were sinews on them, and flesh had come upon them, and skin had
covered them. But there was no breath in them.
Eze 37:9 Then he said to me, "Prophesy to the breath; prophesy, son of man, and say to the breath, Thus says
the Lord GOD: Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe on these slain, that they may live."
Eze 37:10 So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived and stood on
their feet, an exceedingly great army.
Eze 37:11 Then he said to me, "Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, 'Our
bones are dried up, and our hope is lost; we are clean cut off.'
Eze 37:12 Therefore prophesy, and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will open your graves and
raise you from your graves, O my people. And I will bring you into the land of Israel.
Eze 37:13 And you shall know that I am the LORD, when I open your graves, and raise you from your graves, O
my people.
Eze 37:14 And I will put my Spirit within you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your own land. Then you
shall know that I am the LORD; I have spoken, and I will do it, declares the LORD."
Eze 37:15 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 37:16 "Son of man, take a stick and write on it, 'For Judah, and the people of Israel associated with him';
then take another stick and write on it, 'For Joseph (the stick of Ephraim) and all the house of Israel associated
with him.'
Eze 37:17 And join them one to another into one stick, that they may become one in your hand.
Eze 37:18 And when your people say to you, 'Will you not tell us what you mean by these?'
Eze 37:19 say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am about to take the stick of Joseph (that is in the
hand of Ephraim) and the tribes of Israel associated with him. And I will join with it the stick of Judah, and make
them one stick, that they may be one in my hand.
Eze 37:20 When the sticks on which you write are in your hand before their eyes,
Eze 37:21 then say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will take the people of Israel from the nations
among which they have gone, and will gather them from all around, and bring them to their own land.
Eze 37:22 And I will make them one nation in the land, on the mountains of Israel. And one king shall be king
over them all, and they shall be no longer two nations, and no longer divided into two kingdoms.
Eze 37:23 They shall not defile themselves anymore with their idols and their detestable things, or with any of
their transgressions. But I will save them from all the backslidings in which they have sinned, and will cleanse
them; and they shall be my people, and I will be their God.
Eze 37:24 "My servant David shall be king over them, and they shall all have one shepherd. They shall walk inmy rules and be careful to obey my statutes.
Eze 37:25 They shall dwell in the land that I gave to my servant Jacob, where your fathers lived. They and their
children and their children's children shall dwell there forever, and David my servant shall be their prince forever.
Eze 37:26 I will make a covenant of peace with them. It shall be an everlasting covenant with them. And I will
set them in their land and multiply them, and will set my sanctuary in their midst forevermore.
Eze 37:27 My dwelling place shall be with them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
Eze 37:28 Then the nations will know that I am the LORD who sanctifies Israel, when my sanctuary is in their
midst forevermore."
Eze 38:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Eze 38:2 "Son of man, set your face toward Gog, of the land of Magog, the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal,
and prophesy against him
Eze 38:3 and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against you, O Gog, chief prince of Meshech and
Tubal.
Eze 38:4 And I will turn you about and put hooks into your jaws, and I will bring you out, and all your army,
horses and horsemen, all of them clothed in full armor, a great host, all of them with buckler and shield, wielding
swords.
Eze 38:5 Persia, Cush, and Put are with them, all of them with shield and helmet;
Eze 38:6 Gomer and all his hordes; Beth-togarmah from the uttermost parts of the north with all his hordesmany peoples are with you.
Eze 38:7 "Be ready and keep ready, you and all your hosts that are assembled about you, and be a guard for
them.
Eze 38:8 After many days you will be mustered. In the latter years you will go against the land that is restored
from war, the land whose people were gathered from many peoples upon the mountains of Israel, which had
been a continual waste. Its people were brought out from the peoples and now dwell securely, all of them.
Eze 38:9 You will advance, coming on like a storm. You will be like a cloud covering the land, you and all your
hordes, and many peoples with you.
Eze 38:10 "Thus says the Lord GOD: On that day, thoughts will come into your mind, and you will devise an evil
scheme
Eze 38:11 and say, 'I will go up against the land of unwalled villages. I will fall upon the quiet people who dwell
securely, all of them dwelling without walls, and having no bars or gates,'
Eze 38:12 to seize spoil and carry off plunder, to turn your hand against the waste places that are now
inhabited, and the people who were gathered from the nations, who have acquired livestock and goods, who
dwell at the center of the earth.
Eze 38:13 Sheba and Dedan and the merchants of Tarshish and all its leaders will say to you, 'Have you come
to seize spoil? Have you assembled your hosts to carry off plunder, to carry away silver and gold, to take away
livestock and goods, to seize great spoil?'
Eze 38:14 "Therefore, son of man, prophesy, and say to Gog, Thus says the Lord GOD: On that day when my
people Israel are dwelling securely, will you not know it?
Eze 38:15 You will come from your place out of the uttermost parts of the north, you and many peoples with
you, all of them riding on horses, a great host, a mighty army.
Eze 38:16 You will come up against my people Israel, like a cloud covering the land. In the latter days I will bring
you against my land, that the nations may know me, when through you, O Gog, I vindicate my holiness before
their eyes.
Eze 38:17 "Thus says the Lord GOD: Are you he of whom I spoke in former days by my servants the prophets
of Israel, who in those days prophesied for years that I would bring you against them?
Eze 38:18 But on that day, the day that Gog shall come against the land of Israel, declares the Lord GOD, my
wrath will be roused in my anger.
Eze 38:19 For in my jealousy and in my blazing wrath I declare, On that day there shall be a great earthquake in
the land of Israel.
Eze 38:20 The fish of the sea and the birds of the heavens and the beasts of the field and all creeping things
that creep on the ground, and all the people who are on the face of the earth, shall quake at my presence. And
the mountains shall be thrown down, and the cliffs shall fall, and every wall shall tumble to the ground.
Eze 38:21 I will summon a sword against Gog on all my mountains, declares the Lord GOD. Every man's sword
will be against his brother.
Eze 38:22 With pestilence and bloodshed I will enter into judgment with him, and I will rain upon him and his
hordes and the many peoples who are with him torrential rains and hailstones, fire and sulfur.
Eze 38:23 So I will show my greatness and my holiness and make myself known in the eyes of many nations.
Then they will know that I am the LORD.
Eze 39:1 "And you, son of man, prophesy against Gog and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am againstyou, O Gog, chief prince of Meshech and Tubal.
Eze 39:2 And I will turn you about and drive you forward, and bring you up from the uttermost parts of the north,
and lead you against the mountains of Israel.
Eze 39:3 Then I will strike your bow from your left hand, and will make your arrows drop out of your right hand.
Eze 39:4 You shall fall on the mountains of Israel, you and all your hordes and the peoples who are with you. I
will give you to birds of prey of every sort and to the beasts of the field to be devoured.
Eze 39:5 You shall fall in the open field, for I have spoken, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 39:6 I will send fire on Magog and on those who dwell securely in the coastlands, and they shall know that I
am the LORD.
Eze 39:7 "And my holy name I will make known in the midst of my people Israel, and I will not let my holy name
be profaned anymore. And the nations shall know that I am the LORD, the Holy One in Israel.
Eze 39:8 Behold, it is coming and it will be brought about, declares the Lord GOD. That is the day of which I
have spoken.
Eze 39:9 "Then those who dwell in the cities of Israel will go out and make fires of the weapons and burn them,
shields and bucklers, bow and arrows, clubs and spears; and they will make fires of them for seven years,
Eze 39:10 so that they will not need to take wood out of the field or cut down any out of the forests, for they will
make their fires of the weapons. They will seize the spoil of those who despoiled them, and plunder those who
plundered them, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 39:11 "On that day I will give to Gog a place for burial in Israel, the Valley of the Travelers, east of the sea.
It will block the travelers, for there Gog and all his multitude will be buried. It will be called the Valley of Hamongog.
Eze 39:12 For seven months the house of Israel will be burying them, in order to cleanse the land.
Eze 39:13 All the people of the land will bury them, and it will bring them renown on the day that I show my
glory, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 39:14 They will set apart men to travel through the land regularly and bury those travelers remaining on the
face of the land, so as to cleanse it. At the end of seven months they will make their search.
Eze 39:15 And when these travel through the land and anyone sees a human bone, then he shall set up a sign
by it, till the buriers have buried it in the Valley of Hamon-gog.
Eze 39:16 (Hamonah is also the name of the city.) Thus shall they cleanse the land.
Eze 39:17 "As for you, son of man, thus says the Lord GOD: Speak to the birds of every sort and to all beasts of
the field, 'Assemble and come, gather from all around to the sacrificial feast that I am preparing for you, a great
sacrificial feast on the mountains of Israel, and you shall eat flesh and drink blood.
Eze 39:18 You shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink the blood of the princes of the earth- of rams, of
lambs, and of he-goats, of bulls, all of them fat beasts of Bashan.
Eze 39:19 And you shall eat fat till you are filled, and drink blood till you are drunk, at the sacrificial feast that I
am preparing for you.
Eze 39:20 And you shall be filled at my table with horses and charioteers, with mighty men and all kinds of
warriors,' declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 39:21 "And I will set my glory among the nations, and all the nations shall see my judgment that I have
executed, and my hand that I have laid on them.
Eze 39:22 The house of Israel shall know that I am the LORD their God, from that day forward.
Eze 39:23 And the nations shall know that the house of Israel went into captivity for their iniquity, because they
dealt so treacherously with me that I hid my face from them and gave them into the hand of their adversaries,
and they all fell by the sword.
Eze 39:24 I dealt with them according to their uncleanness and their transgressions, and hid my face from them.
Eze 39:25 "Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Now I will restore the fortunes of Jacob and have mercy on the
whole house of Israel, and I will be jealous for my holy name.
Eze 39:26 They shall forget their shame and all the treachery they have practiced against me, when they dwell
securely in their land with none to make them afraid,
Eze 39:27 when I have brought them back from the peoples and gathered them from their enemies' lands, and
through them have vindicated my holiness in the sight of many nations.
Eze 39:28 Then they shall know that I am the LORD their God, because I sent them into exile among the
nations and then assembled them into their own land. I will leave none of them remaining among the nations
anymore.
Eze 39:29 And I will not hide my face anymore from them, when I pour out my Spirit upon the house of Israel,
declares the Lord GOD."
Eze 40:1 In the twenty-fifth year of our exile, at the beginning of the year, on the tenth day of the month, in the
fourteenth year after the city was struck down, on that very day, the hand of the LORD was upon me, and he
brought me to the city.Eze 40:2 In visions of God he brought me to the land of Israel, and set me down on a very high mountain, on
which was a structure like a city to the south.
Eze 40:3 When he brought me there, behold, there was a man whose appearance was like bronze, with a linen
cord and a measuring reed in his hand. And he was standing in the gateway.
Eze 40:4 And the man said to me, "Son of man, look with your eyes, and hear with your ears, and set your heart
upon all that I shall show you, for you were brought here in order that I might show it to you. Declare all that you
see to the house of Israel."
Eze 40:5 And behold, there was a wall all around the outside of the temple area, and the length of the
measuring reed in the man's hand was six long cubits, each being a cubit and a handbreadth in length. So he
measured the thickness of the wall, one reed; and the height, one reed.
Eze 40:6 Then he went into the gateway facing east, going up its steps, and measured the threshold of the gate,
one reed deep.
Eze 40:7 And the side rooms, one reed long and one reed broad; and the space between the side rooms, five
cubits; and the threshold of the gate by the vestibule of the gate at the inner end, one reed.
Eze 40:8 Then he measured the vestibule of the gateway, on the inside, one reed.
Eze 40:9 Then he measured the vestibule of the gateway, eight cubits; and its jambs, two cubits; and the
vestibule of the gate was at the inner end.
Eze 40:10 And there were three side rooms on either side of the east gate. The three were of the same size,
and the jambs on either side were of the same size.
Eze 40:11 Then he measured the width of the opening of the gateway, ten cubits; and the length of the
gateway, thirteen cubits.
Eze 40:12 There was a barrier before the side rooms, one cubit on either side. And the side rooms were six
cubits on either side.
Eze 40:13 Then he measured the gate from the ceiling of the one side room to the ceiling of the other, a breadth
of twenty-five cubits; the openings faced each other.
Eze 40:14 He measured also the vestibule, twenty cubits. And around the vestibule of the gateway was the
court.
Eze 40:15 From the front of the gate at the entrance to the front of the inner vestibule of the gate was fifty
cubits.
Eze 40:16 And the gateway had windows all around, narrowing inwards toward the side rooms and toward their
jambs, and likewise the vestibule had windows all around inside, and on the jambs were palm trees.
Eze 40:17 Then he brought me into the outer court. And behold, there were chambers and a pavement, all
around the court. Thirty chambers faced the pavement.
Eze 40:18 And the pavement ran along the side of the gates, corresponding to the length of the gates. This was
the lower pavement.
Eze 40:19 Then he measured the distance from the inner front of the lower gate to the outer front of the inner
court, a hundred cubits on the east side and on the north side.
Eze 40:20 As for the gate that faced toward the north, belonging to the outer court, he measured its length and
its breadth.
Eze 40:21 Its side rooms, three on either side, and its jambs and its vestibule were of the same size as those of
the first gate. Its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
Eze 40:22 And its windows, its vestibule, and its palm trees were of the same size as those of the gate that
faced toward the east. And by seven steps people would go up to it, and find its vestibule before them.
Eze 40:23 And opposite the gate on the north, as on the east, was a gate to the inner court. And he measured
from gate to gate, a hundred cubits.
Eze 40:24 And he led me toward the south, and behold, there was a gate on the south. And he measured its
jambs and its vestibule; they had the same size as the others.
Eze 40:25 Both it and its vestibule had windows all around, like the windows of the others. Its length was fifty
cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
Eze 40:26 And there were seven steps leading up to it, and its vestibule was before them, and it had palm trees
on its jambs, one on either side.
Eze 40:27 And there was a gate on the south of the inner court. And he measured from gate to gate toward the
south, a hundred cubits.
Eze 40:28 Then he brought me to the inner court through the south gate, and he measured the south gate. It
was of the same size as the others.
Eze 40:29 Its side rooms, its jambs, and its vestibule were of the same size as the others, and both it and its
vestibule had windows all around. Its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
Eze 40:30 And there were vestibules all around, twenty-five cubits long and five cubits broad.
Eze 40:31 Its vestibule faced the outer court, and palm trees were on its jambs, and its stairway had eight steps.Eze 40:32 Then he brought me to the inner court on the east side, and he measured the gate. It was of the
same size as the others.
Eze 40:33 Its side rooms, its jambs, and its vestibule were of the same size as the others, and both it and its
vestibule had windows all around. Its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
Eze 40:34 Its vestibule faced the outer court, and it had palm trees on its jambs, on either side, and its stairway
had eight steps.
Eze 40:35 Then he brought me to the north gate, and he measured it. It had the same size as the others.
Eze 40:36 Its side rooms, its jambs, and its vestibule were of the same size as the others, and it had windows
all around. Its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
Eze 40:37 Its vestibule faced the outer court, and it had palm trees on its jambs, on either side, and its stairway
had eight steps.
Eze 40:38 There was a chamber with its door in the vestibule of the gate, where the burnt offering was to be
washed.
Eze 40:39 And in the vestibule of the gate were two tables on either side, on which the burnt offering and the sin
offering and the guilt offering were to be slaughtered.
Eze 40:40 And off to the side, on the outside as one goes up to the entrance of the north gate, were two tables;
and off to the other side of the vestibule of the gate were two tables.
Eze 40:41 Four tables were on either side of the gate, eight tables, on which to slaughter.
Eze 40:42 And there were four tables of hewn stone for the burnt offering, a cubit and a half long, and a cubit
and a half broad, and one cubit high, on which the instruments were to be laid with which the burnt offerings and
the sacrifices were slaughtered.
Eze 40:43 And hooks, a handbreadth long, were fastened all around within. And on the tables the flesh of the
offering was to be laid.
Eze 40:44 On the outside of the inner gateway there were two chambers in the inner court, one at the side of
the north gate facing south, the other at the side of the south gate facing north.
Eze 40:45 And he said to me, This chamber that faces south is for the priests who have charge of the temple,
Eze 40:46 and the chamber that faces north is for the priests who have charge of the altar. These are the sons
of Zadok, who alone among the sons of Levi may come near to the LORD to minister to him.
Eze 40:47 And he measured the court, a hundred cubits long and a hundred cubits broad, a square. And the
altar was in front of the temple.
Eze 40:48 Then he brought me to the vestibule of the temple and measured the jambs of the vestibule, five
cubits on either side. And the breadth of the gate was fourteen cubits, and the sidewalls of the gate were three
cubits on either side.
Eze 40:49 The length of the vestibule was twenty cubits, and the breadth twelve cubits, and people would go up
to it by ten steps. And there were pillars beside the jambs, one on either side.
Eze 41:1 Then he brought me to the nave and measured the jambs. On each side six cubits was the breadth of
the jambs.
Eze 41:2 And the breadth of the entrance was ten cubits, and the sidewalls of the entrance were five cubits on
either side. And he measured the length of the nave, forty cubits, and its breadth, twenty cubits.
Eze 41:3 Then he went into the inner room and measured the jambs of the entrance, two cubits; and the
entrance, six cubits; and the sidewalls on either side of the entrance, seven cubits.
Eze 41:4 And he measured the length of the room, twenty cubits, and its breadth, twenty cubits, across the
nave. And he said to me, "This is the Most Holy Place."
Eze 41:5 Then he measured the wall of the temple, six cubits thick, and the breadth of the side chambers, four
cubits, all around the temple.
Eze 41:6 And the side chambers were in three stories, one over another, thirty in each story. There were offsets
all around the wall of the temple to serve as supports for the side chambers, so that they should not be
supported by the wall of the temple.
Eze 41:7 And it became broader as it wound upward to the side chambers, because the temple was enclosed
upward all around the temple. Thus the temple had a broad area upwards, and so one went up from the lowest
story to the top story through the middle story.
Eze 41:8 I saw also that the temple had a raised platform all around; the foundations of the side chambers
measured a full reed of six long cubits.
Eze 41:9 The thickness of the outer wall of the side chambers was five cubits. The free space between the side
chambers of the temple and the
Eze 41:10 other chambers was a breadth of twenty cubits all around the temple on every side.
Eze 41:11 And the doors of the side chambers opened on the free space, one door toward the north, and
another door toward the south. And the breadth of the free space was five cubits all around.
Eze 41:12 The building that was facing the separate yard on the west side was seventy cubits broad, and thewall of the building was five cubits thick all around, and its length ninety cubits.
Eze 41:13 Then he measured the temple, a hundred cubits long; and the yard and the building with its walls, a
hundred cubits long;
Eze 41:14 also the breadth of the east front of the temple and the yard, a hundred cubits.
Eze 41:15 Then he measured the length of the building facing the yard that was at the back and its galleries on
either side, a hundred cubits. The inside of the nave and the vestibules of the court,
Eze 41:16 the thresholds and the narrow windows and the galleries all around the three of them, opposite the
threshold, were paneled with wood all around, from the floor up to the windows (now the windows were
covered),
Eze 41:17 to the space above the door, even to the inner room, and on the outside. And on all the walls all
around, inside and outside, was a measured pattern.
Eze 41:18 It was carved of cherubim and palm trees, a palm tree between cherub and cherub. Every cherub
had two faces:
Eze 41:19 a human face toward the palm tree on the one side, and the face of a young lion toward the palm tree
on the other side. They were carved on the whole temple all around.
Eze 41:20 From the floor to above the door, cherubim and palm trees were carved; similarly the wall of the
nave.
Eze 41:21 The doorposts of the nave were squared, and in front of the Holy Place was something resembling
Eze 41:22 an altar of wood, three cubits high, two cubits long, and two cubits broad. Its corners, its base, and its
walls were of wood. He said to me, "This is the table that is before the LORD."
Eze 41:23 The nave and the Holy Place had each a double door.
Eze 41:24 The double doors had two leaves apiece, two swinging leaves for each door.
Eze 41:25 And on the doors of the nave were carved cherubim and palm trees, such as were carved on the
walls. And there was a canopy of wood in front of the vestibule outside.
Eze 41:26 And there were narrow windows and palm trees on either side, on the sidewalls of the vestibule, the
side chambers of the temple, and the canopies.
Eze 42:1 Then he led me out into the outer court, toward the north, and he brought me to the chambers that
were opposite the separate yard and opposite the building on the north.
Eze 42:2 The length of the building whose door faced north was a hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty cubits.
Eze 42:3 Facing the twenty cubits that belonged to the inner court, and facing the pavement that belonged to
the outer court, was gallery against gallery in three stories.
Eze 42:4 And before the chambers was a passage inward, ten cubits wide and a hundred cubits long, and their
doors were on the north.
Eze 42:5 Now the upper chambers were narrower, for the galleries took more away from them than from the
lower and middle chambers of the building.
Eze 42:6 For they were in three stories, and they had no pillars like the pillars of the courts. Thus the upper
chambers were set back from the ground more than the lower and the middle ones.
Eze 42:7 And there was a wall outside parallel to the chambers, toward the outer court, opposite the chambers,
fifty cubits long.
Eze 42:8 For the chambers on the outer court were fifty cubits long, while those opposite the nave were a
hundred cubits long.
Eze 42:9 Below these chambers was an entrance on the east side, as one enters them from the outer court.
Eze 42:10 In the thickness of the wall of the court, on the south also, opposite the yard and opposite the
building, there were chambers
Eze 42:11 with a passage in front of them. They were similar to the chambers on the north, of the same length
and breadth, with the same exits and arrangements and doors,
Eze 42:12 as were the entrances of the chambers on the south. There was an entrance at the beginning of the
passage, the passage before the corresponding wall on the east as one enters them.
Eze 42:13 Then he said to me, "The north chambers and the south chambers opposite the yard are the holy
chambers, where the priests who approach the LORD shall eat the most holy offerings. There they shall put the
most holy offerings- the grain offering, the sin offering, and the guilt offering, for the place is holy.
Eze 42:14 When the priests enter the Holy Place, they shall not go out of it into the outer court without laying
there the garments in which they minister, for these are holy. They shall put on other garments before they go
near to that which is for the people."
Eze 42:15 Now when he had finished measuring the interior of the temple area, he led me out by the gate that
faced east, and measured the temple area all around.
Eze 42:16 He measured the east side with the measuring reed, 500 cubits by the measuring reed all around.
Eze 42:17 He measured the north side, 500 cubits by the measuring reed all around.
Eze 42:18 He measured the south side, 500 cubits by the measuring reed.Eze 42:19 Then he turned to the west side and measured, 500 cubits by the measuring reed.
Eze 42:20 He measured it on the four sides. It had a wall around it, 500 cubits long and 500 cubits broad, to
make a separation between the holy and the common.
Eze 43:1 Then he led me to the gate, the gate facing east.
Eze 43:2 And behold, the glory of the God of Israel was coming from the east. And the sound of his coming was
like the sound of many waters, and the earth shone with his glory.
Eze 43:3 And the vision I saw was just like the vision that I had seen when he came to destroy the city, and just
like the vision that I had seen by the Chebar canal. And I fell on my face.
Eze 43:4 As the glory of the LORD entered the temple by the gate facing east,
Eze 43:5 the Spirit lifted me up and brought me into the inner court; and behold, the glory of the LORD filled the
temple.
Eze 43:6 While the man was standing beside me, I heard one speaking to me out of the temple,
Eze 43:7 and he said to me, "Son of man, this is the place of my throne and the place of the soles of my feet,
where I will dwell in the midst of the people of Israel forever. And the house of Israel shall no more defile my holy
name, neither they, nor their kings, by their whoring and by the dead bodies of their kings at their high places,
Eze 43:8 by setting their threshold by my threshold and their doorposts beside my doorposts, with only a wall
between me and them. They have defiled my holy name by their abominations that they have committed, so I
have consumed them in my anger.
Eze 43:9 Now let them put away their whoring and the dead bodies of their kings far from me, and I will dwell in
their midst forever.
Eze 43:10 "As for you, son of man, describe to the house of Israel the temple, that they may be ashamed of
their iniquities; and they shall measure the plan.
Eze 43:11 And if they are ashamed of all that they have done, make known to them the design of the temple, its
arrangement, its exits and its entrances, that is, its whole design; and make known to them as well all its statutes
and its whole design and all its laws, and write it down in their sight, so that they may observe all its laws and all
its statutes and carry them out.
Eze 43:12 This is the law of the temple: the whole territory on the top of the mountain all around shall be most
holy. Behold, this is the law of the temple.
Eze 43:13 "These are the measurements of the altar by cubits (the cubit being a cubit and a handbreadth): its
base shall be one cubit high and one cubit broad, with a rim of one span around its edge. And this shall be the
height of the altar:
Eze 43:14 from the base on the ground to the lower ledge, two cubits, with a breadth of one cubit; and from the
smaller ledge to the larger ledge, four cubits, with a breadth of one cubit;
Eze 43:15 and the altar hearth, four cubits; and from the altar hearth projecting upward, four horns.
Eze 43:16 The altar hearth shall be square, twelve cubits long by twelve broad.
Eze 43:17 The ledge also shall be square, fourteen cubits long by fourteen broad, with a rim around it half a
cubit broad, and its base one cubit all around. The steps of the altar shall face east."
Eze 43:18 And he said to me, "Son of man, thus says the Lord GOD: These are the ordinances for the altar: On
the day when it is erected for offering burnt offerings upon it and for throwing blood against it,
Eze 43:19 you shall give to the Levitical priests of the family of Zadok, who draw near to me to minister to me,
declares the Lord GOD, a bull from the herd for a sin offering.
Eze 43:20 And you shall take some of its blood and put it on the four horns of the altar and on the four corners
of the ledge and upon the rim all around. Thus you shall purify the altar and make atonement for it.
Eze 43:21 You shall also take the bull of the sin offering, and it shall be burned in the appointed place belonging
to the temple, outside the sacred area.
Eze 43:22 And on the second day you shall offer a male goat without blemish for a sin offering; and the altar
shall be purified, as it was purified with the bull.
Eze 43:23 When you have finished purifying it, you shall offer a bull from the herd without blemish and a ram
from the flock without blemish.
Eze 43:24 You shall present them before the LORD, and the priests shall sprinkle salt on them and offer them
up as a burnt offering to the LORD.
Eze 43:25 For seven days you shall provide daily a male goat for a sin offering; also, a bull from the herd and a
ram from the flock, without blemish, shall be provided.
Eze 43:26 Seven days shall they make atonement for the altar and cleanse it, and so consecrate it.
Eze 43:27 And when they have completed these days, then from the eighth day onward the priests shall offer
on the altar your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, and I will accept you, declares the Lord GOD."
Eze 44:1 Then he brought me back to the outer gate of the sanctuary, which faces east. And it was shut.
Eze 44:2 And the LORD said to me, "This gate shall remain shut; it shall not be opened, and no one shall enter
by it, for the LORD, the God of Israel, has entered by it. Therefore it shall remain shut.Eze 44:3 Only the prince may sit in it to eat bread before the LORD. He shall enter by way of the vestibule of the
gate, and shall go out by the same way."
Eze 44:4 Then he brought me by way of the north gate to the front of the temple, and I looked, and behold, the
glory of the LORD filled the temple of the LORD. And I fell on my face.
Eze 44:5 And the LORD said to me, "Son of man, mark well, see with your eyes, and hear with your ears all that
I shall tell you concerning all the statutes of the temple of the LORD and all its laws. And mark well the entrance
to the temple and all the exits from the sanctuary.
Eze 44:6 And say to the rebellious house, to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: O house of Israel,
enough of all your abominations,
Eze 44:7 in admitting foreigners, uncircumcised in heart and flesh, to be in my sanctuary, profaning my temple,
when you offer to me my food, the fat and the blood. You have broken my covenant, in addition to all your
abominations.
Eze 44:8 And you have not kept charge of my holy things, but you have set others to keep my charge for you in
my sanctuary.
Eze 44:9 "Thus says the Lord GOD: No foreigner, uncircumcised in heart and flesh, of all the foreigners who are
among the people of Israel, shall enter my sanctuary.
Eze 44:10 But the Levites who went far from me, going astray from me after their idols when Israel went astray,
shall bear their punishment.
Eze 44:11 They shall be ministers in my sanctuary, having oversight at the gates of the temple and ministering
in the temple. They shall slaughter the burnt offering and the sacrifice for the people, and they shall stand before
the people, to minister to them.
Eze 44:12 Because they ministered to them before their idols and became a stumbling block of iniquity to the
house of Israel, therefore I have sworn concerning them, declares the Lord GOD, and they shall bear their
punishment.
Eze 44:13 They shall not come near to me, to serve me as priest, nor come near any of my holy things and the
things that are most holy, but they shall bear their shame and the abominations that they have committed.
Eze 44:14 Yet I will appoint them to keep charge of the temple, to do all its service and all that is to be done in it.
Eze 44:15 "But the Levitical priests, the sons of Zadok, who kept the charge of my sanctuary when the people of
Israel went astray from me, shall come near to me to minister to me. And they shall stand before me to offer me
the fat and the blood, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 44:16 They shall enter my sanctuary, and they shall approach my table, to minister to me, and they shall
keep my charge.
Eze 44:17 When they enter the gates of the inner court, they shall wear linen garments. They shall have nothing
of wool on them, while they minister at the gates of the inner court, and within.
Eze 44:18 They shall have linen turbans on their heads, and linen undergarments around their waists. They
shall not bind themselves with anything that causes sweat.
Eze 44:19 And when they go out into the outer court to the people, they shall put off the garments in which they
have been ministering and lay them in the holy chambers. And they shall put on other garments, lest they
communicate holiness to the people with their garments.
Eze 44:20 They shall not shave their heads or let their locks grow long; they shall surely trim the hair of their
heads.
Eze 44:21 No priest shall drink wine when he enters the inner court.
Eze 44:22 They shall not marry a widow or a divorced woman, but only virgins of the offspring of the house of
Israel, or a widow who is the widow of a priest.
Eze 44:23 They shall teach my people the difference between the holy and the common, and show them how to
distinguish between the unclean and the clean.
Eze 44:24 In a dispute, they shall act as judges, and they shall judge it according to my judgments. They shall
keep my laws and my statutes in all my appointed feasts, and they shall keep my Sabbaths holy.
Eze 44:25 They shall not defile themselves by going near to a dead person. However, for father or mother, for
son or daughter, for brother or unmarried sister they may defile themselves.
Eze 44:26 After he has become clean, they shall count seven days for him.
Eze 44:27 And on the day that he goes into the Holy Place, into the inner court, to minister in the Holy Place, he
shall offer his sin offering, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 44:28 "This shall be their inheritance: I am their inheritance: and you shall give them no possession in
Israel; I am their possession.
Eze 44:29 They shall eat the grain offering, the sin offering, and the guilt offering, and every devoted thing in
Israel shall be theirs.
Eze 44:30 And the first of all the firstfruits of all kinds, and every offering of all kinds from all your offerings, shall
belong to the priests. You shall also give to the priests the first of your dough, that a blessing may rest on yourhouse.
Eze 44:31 The priests shall not eat of anything, whether bird or beast, that has died of itself or is torn by wild
animals.
Eze 45:1 "When you allot the land as an inheritance, you shall set apart for the LORD a portion of the land as a
holy district, 25,000 cubits long and 20,000 cubits broad. It shall be holy throughout its whole extent.
Eze 45:2 Of this a square plot of 500 by 500 cubits shall be for the sanctuary, with fifty cubits for an open space
around it.
Eze 45:3 And from this measured district you shall measure off a section 25,000 cubits long and 10,000 broad,
in which shall be the sanctuary, the Most Holy Place.
Eze 45:4 It shall be the holy portion of the land. It shall be for the priests, who minister in the sanctuary and
approach the LORD to minister to him, and it shall be a place for their houses and a holy place for the sanctuary.
Eze 45:5 Another section, 25,000 cubits long and 10,000 cubits broad, shall be for the Levites who minister at
the temple, as their possession for cities to live in.
Eze 45:6 "Alongside the portion set apart as the holy district you shall assign for the property of the city an area
5,000 cubits broad and 25,000 cubits long. It shall belong to the whole house of Israel.
Eze 45:7 "And to the prince shall belong the land on both sides of the holy district and the property of the city,
alongside the holy district and the property of the city, on the west and on the east, corresponding in length to
one of the tribal portions, and extending from the western to the eastern boundary
Eze 45:8 of the land. It is to be his property in Israel. And my princes shall no more oppress my people, but they
shall let the house of Israel have the land according to their tribes.
Eze 45:9 "Thus says the Lord GOD: Enough, O princes of Israel! Put away violence and oppression, and
execute justice and righteousness. Cease your evictions of my people, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 45:10 "You shall have just balances, a just ephah, and a just bath.
Eze 45:11 The ephah and the bath shall be of the same measure, the bath containing one tenth of a homer, and
the ephah one tenth of a homer; the homer shall be the standard measure.
Eze 45:12 The shekel shall be twenty gerahs; twenty shekels plus twenty-five shekels plus fifteen shekels shall
be your mina.
Eze 45:13 "This is the offering that you shall make: one sixth of an ephah from each homer of wheat, and one
sixth of an ephah from each homer of barley,
Eze 45:14 and as the fixed portion of oil, measured in baths, one tenth of a bath from each cor (the cor, like the
homer, contains ten baths).
Eze 45:15 And one sheep from every flock of two hundred, from the watering places of Israel for grain offering,
burnt offering, and peace offerings, to make atonement for them, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 45:16 All the people of the land shall be obliged to give this offering to the prince in Israel.
Eze 45:17 It shall be the prince's duty to furnish the burnt offerings, grain offerings, and drink offerings, at the
feasts, the new moons, and the Sabbaths, all the appointed feasts of the house of Israel: he shall provide the sin
offerings, grain offerings, burnt offerings, and peace offerings, to make atonement on behalf of the house of
Israel.
Eze 45:18 "Thus says the Lord GOD: In the first month, on the first day of the month, you shall take a bull from
the herd without blemish, and purify the sanctuary.
Eze 45:19 The priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering and put it on the doorposts of the temple,
the four corners of the ledge of the altar, and the posts of the gate of the inner court.
Eze 45:20 You shall do the same on the seventh day of the month for anyone who has sinned through error or
ignorance; so you shall make atonement for the temple.
Eze 45:21 "In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, you shall celebrate the Feast of the Passover,
and for seven days unleavened bread shall be eaten.
Eze 45:22 On that day the prince shall provide for himself and all the people of the land a young bull for a sin
offering.
Eze 45:23 And on the seven days of the festival he shall provide as a burnt offering to the LORD seven young
bulls and seven rams without blemish, on each of the seven days; and a male goat daily for a sin offering.
Eze 45:24 And he shall provide as a grain offering an ephah for each bull, an ephah for each ram, and a hin of
oil to each ephah.
Eze 45:25 In the seventh month, on the fifteenth day of the month and for the seven days of the feast, he shall
make the same provision for sin offerings, burnt offerings, and grain offerings, and for the oil.
Eze 46:1 "Thus says the Lord GOD: The gate of the inner court that faces east shall be shut on the six working
days, but on the Sabbath day it shall be opened, and on the day of the new moon it shall be opened.
Eze 46:2 The prince shall enter by the vestibule of the gate from outside, and shall take his stand by the post of
the gate. The priests shall offer his burnt offering and his peace offerings, and he shall worship at the threshold
of the gate. Then he shall go out, but the gate shall not be shut until evening.Eze 46:3 The people of the land shall bow down at the entrance of that gate before the LORD on the Sabbaths
and on the new moons.
Eze 46:4 The burnt offering that the prince offers to the LORD on the Sabbath day shall be six lambs without
blemish and a ram without blemish.
Eze 46:5 And the grain offering with the ram shall be an ephah, and the grain offering with the lambs shall be as
much as he is able, together with a hin of oil to each ephah.
Eze 46:6 On the day of the new moon he shall offer a bull from the herd without blemish, and six lambs and a
ram, which shall be without blemish.
Eze 46:7 As a grain offering he shall provide an ephah with the bull and an ephah with the ram, and with the
lambs as much as he is able, together with a hin of oil to each ephah.
Eze 46:8 When the prince enters, he shall enter by the vestibule of the gate, and he shall go out by the same
way.
Eze 46:9 "When the people of the land come before the LORD at the appointed feasts, he who enters by the
north gate to worship shall go out by the south gate, and he who enters by the south gate shall go out by the
north gate: no one shall return by way of the gate by which he entered, but each shall go out straight ahead.
Eze 46:10 When they enter, the prince shall enter with them, and when they go out, he shall go out.
Eze 46:11 "At the feasts and the appointed festivals, the grain offering with a young bull shall be an ephah, and
with a ram an ephah, and with the lambs as much as one is able to give, together with a hin of oil to an ephah.
Eze 46:12 When the prince provides a freewill offering, either a burnt offering or peace offerings as a freewill
offering to the LORD, the gate facing east shall be opened for him. And he shall offer his burnt offering or his
peace offerings as he does on the Sabbath day. Then he shall go out, and after he has gone out the gate shall
be shut.
Eze 46:13 "You shall provide a lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering to the LORD daily; morning
by morning you shall provide it.
Eze 46:14 And you shall provide a grain offering with it morning by morning, one sixth of an ephah, and one
third of a hin of oil to moisten the flour, as a grain offering to the LORD. This is a perpetual statute.
Eze 46:15 Thus the lamb and the meal offering and the oil shall be provided, morning by morning, for a regular
burnt offering.
Eze 46:16 "Thus says the Lord GOD: If the prince makes a gift to any of his sons as his inheritance, it shall
belong to his sons. It is their property by inheritance.
Eze 46:17 But if he makes a gift out of his inheritance to one of his servants, it shall be his to the year of liberty.
Then it shall revert to the prince; surely it is his inheritance- it shall belong to his sons.
Eze 46:18 The prince shall not take any of the inheritance of the people, thrusting them out of their property. He
shall give his sons their inheritance out of his own property, so that none of my people shall be scattered from
his property."
Eze 46:19 Then he brought me through the entrance, which was at the side of the gate, to the north row of the
holy chambers for the priests, and behold, a place was there at the extreme western end of them.
Eze 46:20 And he said to me, "This is the place where the priests shall boil the guilt offering and the sin offering,
and where they shall bake the grain offering, in order not to bring them out into the outer court and so
communicate holiness to the people."
Eze 46:21 Then he brought me out to the outer court and led me around to the four corners of the court. And
behold, in each corner of the court there was another courtEze 46:22 in the four corners of the court were small courts, forty cubits long and thirty broad; the four were of
the same size.
Eze 46:23 On the inside, around each of the four courts was a row of masonry, with hearths made at the bottom
of the rows all around.
Eze 46:24 Then he said to me, "These are the kitchens where those who minister at the temple shall boil the
sacrifices of the people."
Eze 47:1 Then he brought me back to the door of the temple, and behold, water was issuing from below the
threshold of the temple toward the east (for the temple faced east). The water was flowing down from below the
south end of the threshold of the temple, south of the altar.
Eze 47:2 Then he brought me out by way of the north gate and led me around on the outside to the outer gate
that faces toward the east; and behold, the water was trickling out on the south side.
Eze 47:3 Going on eastward with a measuring line in his hand, the man measured a thousand cubits, and then
led me through the water, and it was ankle-deep.
Eze 47:4 Again he measured a thousand, and led me through the water, and it was knee-deep. Again he
measured a thousand, and led me through the water, and it was waist-deep.
Eze 47:5 Again he measured a thousand, and it was a river that I could not pass through, for the water had
risen. It was deep enough to swim in, a river that could not be passed through.Eze 47:6 And he said to me, "Son of man, have you seen this?" Then he led me back to the bank of the river.
Eze 47:7 As I went back, I saw on the bank of the river very many trees on the one side and on the other.
Eze 47:8 And he said to me, "This water flows toward the eastern region and goes down into the Arabah, and
enters the sea; when the water flows into the sea, the water will become fresh.
Eze 47:9 And wherever the river goes, every living creature that swarms will live, and there will be very many
fish. For this water goes there, that the waters of the sea may become fresh; so everything will live where the
river goes.
Eze 47:10 Fishermen will stand beside the sea. From Engedi to En-eglaim it will be a place for the spreading of
nets. Its fish will be of very many kinds, like the fish of the Great Sea.
Eze 47:11 But its swamps and marshes will not become fresh; they are to be left for salt.
Eze 47:12 And on the banks, on both sides of the river, there will grow all kinds of trees for food. Their leaves
will not wither, nor their fruit fail, but they will bear fresh fruit every month, because the water for them flows from
the sanctuary. Their fruit will be for food, and their leaves for healing."
Eze 47:13 Thus says the Lord GOD: "This is the boundary by which you shall divide the land for inheritance
among the twelve tribes of Israel. Joseph shall have two portions.
Eze 47:14 And you shall divide equally what I swore to give to your fathers. This land shall fall to you as your
inheritance.
Eze 47:15 "This shall be the boundary of the land: On the north side, from the Great Sea by way of Hethlon to
Lebo-hamath, and on to Zedad,
Eze 47:16 Berothah, Sibraim (which lies on the border between Damascus and Hamath), as far as Hazerhatticon, which is on the border of Hauran.
Eze 47:17 So the boundary shall run from the sea to Hazar-enan, which is on the northern border of Damascus,
with the border of Hamath to the north. This shall be the north side.
Eze 47:18 "On the east side, the boundary shall run between Hauran and Da mascus; along the Jordan
between Gilead and the land of Israel; to the eastern sea and as far as Tamar. This shall be the east side.
Eze 47:19 "On the south side, it shall run from Tamar as far as the waters of Meribah-kadesh, from there along
the Brook of Egypt to the Great Sea. This shall be the south side.
Eze 47:20 "On the west side, the Great Sea shall be the boundary to a point opposite Lebo-hamath. This shall
be the west side.
Eze 47:21 "So you shall divide this land among you according to the tribes of Israel.
Eze 47:22 You shall allot it as an inheritance for yourselves and for the sojourners who reside among you and
have had children among you. They shall be to you as native-born children of Israel. With you they shall be
allotted an inheritance among the tribes of Israel.
Eze 47:23 In whatever tribe the sojourner resides, there you shall assign him his inheritance, declares the Lord
GOD.
Eze 48:1 "These are the names of the tribes: Beginning at the northern extreme, beside the way of Hethlon to
Lebo-hamath, as far as Hazar-enan (which is on the northern border of Damascus over against Hamath), and
extending from the east side to the west, Dan, one portion.
Eze 48:2 Adjoining the territory of Dan, from the east side to the west, Asher, one portion.
Eze 48:3 Adjoining the territory of Asher, from the east side to the west, Naphtali, one portion.
Eze 48:4 Adjoining the territory of Naphtali, from the east side to the west, Manasseh, one portion.
Eze 48:5 Adjoining the territory of Manasseh, from the east side to the west, Ephraim, one portion.
Eze 48:6 Adjoining the territory of Ephraim, from the east side to the west, Reuben, one portion.
Eze 48:7 Adjoining the territory of Reuben, from the east side to the west, Judah, one portion.
Eze 48:8 "Adjoining the territory of Judah, from the east side to the west, shall be the portion which you shall set
apart, 25,000 cubits in breadth, and in length equal to one of the tribal portions, from the east side to the west,
with the sanctuary in the midst of it.
Eze 48:9 The portion that you shall set apart for the LORD shall be 25,000 cubits in length, and 20,000 in
breadth.
Eze 48:10 These shall be the allotments of the holy portion: the priests shall have an allotment measuring
25,000 cubits on the northern side, 10,000 cubits in breadth on the western side, 10,000 in breadth on the
eastern side, and 25,000 in length on the southern side, with the sanctuary of the LORD in the midst of it.
Eze 48:11 This shall be for the consecrated priests, the sons of Zadok, who kept my charge, who did not go
astray when the people of Israel went astray, as the Levites did.
Eze 48:12 And it shall belong to them as a special portion from the holy portion of the land, a most holy place,
adjoining the territory of the Levites.
Eze 48:13 And alongside the territory of the priests, the Levites shall have an allotment 25,000 cubits in length
and 10,000 in breadth. The whole length shall be 25,000 cubits and the breadth 20,000.
Eze 48:14 They shall not sell or exchange any of it. They shall not alienate this choice portion of the land, for itis holy to the LORD.
Eze 48:15 "The remainder, 5,000 cubits in breadth and 25,000 in length, shall be for common use for the city,
for dwellings and for open country. In the midst of it shall be the city,
Eze 48:16 and these shall be its measurements: the north side 4,500 cubits, the south side 4,500, the east side
4,500, and the west side 4,500.
Eze 48:17 And the city shall have open land: on the north 250 cubits, on the south 250, on the east 250, and on
the west 250.
Eze 48:18 The remainder of the length alongside the holy portion shall be 10,000 cubits to the east, and 10,000
to the west, and it shall be alongside the holy portion. Its produce shall be food for the workers of the city.
Eze 48:19 And the workers of the city, from all the tribes of Israel, shall till it.
Eze 48:20 The whole portion that you shall set apart shall be 25,000 cubits square, that is, the holy portion
together with the property of the city.
Eze 48:21 "What remains on both sides of the holy portion and of the property of the city shall belong to the
prince. Extending from the 25,000 cubits of the holy portion to the east border, and westward from the 25,000
cubits to the west border, parallel to the tribal portions, it shall belong to the prince. The holy portion with the
sanctuary of the temple shall be in its midst.
Eze 48:22 It shall be separate from the property of the Levites and the property of the city, which are in the
midst of that which belongs to the prince. The portion of the prince shall lie between the territory of Judah and
the territory of Benjamin.
Eze 48:23 "As for the rest of the tribes: from the east side to the west, Benjamin, one portion.
Eze 48:24 Adjoining the territory of Benjamin, from the east side to the west, Simeon, one portion.
Eze 48:25 Adjoining the territory of Simeon, from the east side to the west, Issachar, one portion.
Eze 48:26 Adjoining the territory of Issachar, from the east side to the west, Zebulun, one portion.
Eze 48:27 Adjoining the territory of Zebulun, from the east side to the west, Gad, one portion.
Eze 48:28 And adjoining the territory of Gad to the south, the boundary shall run from Tamar to the waters of
Meribah-kadesh, from there along the Brook of Egypt to the Great Sea.
Eze 48:29 This is the land that you shall allot as an inheritance among the tribes of Israel, and these are their
portions, declares the Lord GOD.
Eze 48:30 "These shall be the exits of the city: On the north side, which is to be 4,500 cubits by measure,
Eze 48:31 three gates, the gate of Reuben, the gate of Judah, and the gate of Levi, the gates of the city being
named after the tribes of Israel.
Eze 48:32 On the east side, which is to be 4,500 cubits, three gates, the gate of Joseph, the gate of Benjamin,
and the gate of Dan.
Eze 48:33 On the south side, which is to be 4,500 cubits by measure, three gates, the gate of Simeon, the gate
of Issachar, and the gate of Zebulun.
Eze 48:34 On the west side, which is to be 4,500 cubits, three gates, the gate of Gad, the gate of Asher, and the
gate of Naphtali.
Eze 48:35 The circumference of the city shall be 18,000 cubits. And the name of the city from that time on shall
be, The LORD is there."
Dan 1:1 In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came to
Jerusalem and besieged it.
Dan 1:2 And the Lord gave Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hand, with some of the vessels of the house of
God. And he brought them to the land of Shinar, to the house of his god, and placed the vessels in the treasury
of his god.
Dan 1:3 Then the king commanded Ashpenaz, his chief eunuch, to bring some of the people of Israel, both of
the royal family and of the nobility,
Dan 1:4 youths without blemish, of good appearance and skillful in all wisdom, endowed with knowledge,
understanding learning, and competent to stand in the king's palace, and to teach them the literature and
language of the Chaldeans.
Dan 1:5 The king assigned them a daily portion of the food that the king ate, and of the wine that he drank. They
were to be educated for three years, and at the end of that time they were to stand before the king.
Dan 1:6 Among these were Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah of the tribe of Judah.
Dan 1:7 And the chief of the eunuchs gave them names: Daniel he called Belteshazzar, Hananiah he called
Shadrach, Mishael he called Meshach, and Azariah he called Abednego.
Dan 1:8 But Daniel resolved that he would not defile himself with the king's food, or with the wine that he drank.
Therefore he asked the chief of the eunuchs to allow him not to defile himself.
Dan 1:9 And God gave Daniel favor and compassion in the sight of the chief of the eunuchs,
Dan 1:10 and the chief of the eunuchs said to Daniel, "I fear my lord the king, who assigned your food and your
drink; for why should he see that you were in worse condition than the youths who are of your own age? So youwould endanger my head with the king."
Dan 1:11 Then Daniel said to the steward whom the chief of the eunuchs had assigned over Daniel, Hananiah,
Mishael, and Azariah,
Dan 1:12 "Test your servants for ten days; let us be given vegetables to eat and water to drink.
Dan 1:13 Then let our appearance and the appearance of the youths who eat the king's food be observed by
you, and deal with your servants according to what you see."
Dan 1:14 So he listened to them in this matter, and tested them for ten days.
Dan 1:15 At the end of ten days it was seen that they were better in appearance and fatter in flesh than all the
youths who ate the king's food.
Dan 1:16 So the steward took away their food and the wine they were to drink, and gave them vegetables.
Dan 1:17 As for these four youths, God gave them learning and skill in all literature and wisdom, and Daniel had
understanding in all visions and dreams.
Dan 1:18 At the end of the time, when the king had commanded that they should be brought in, the chief of the
eunuchs brought them in before Nebuchadnezzar.
Dan 1:19 And the king spoke with them, and among all of them none was found like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael,
and Azariah. Therefore they stood before the king.
Dan 1:20 And in every matter of wisdom and understanding about which the king inquired of them, he found
them ten times better than all the magicians and enchanters that were in all his kingdom.
Dan 1:21 And Daniel was there until the first year of King Cyrus.
Dan 2:1 In the second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar had dreams; his spirit was
troubled, and his sleep left him.
Dan 2:2 Then the king commanded that the magicians, the enchanters, the sorcerers, and the Chaldeans be
summoned to tell the king his dreams. So they came in and stood before the king.
Dan 2:3 And the king said to them, "I had a dream, and my spirit is troubled to know the dream."
Dan 2:4 Then the Chaldeans said to the king in Aramaic, "O king, live forever! Tell your servants the dream, and
we will show the interpretation."
Dan 2:5 The king answered and said to the Chaldeans, "The word from me is firm: if you do not make known to
me the dream and its interpretation, you shall be torn limb from limb, and your houses shall be laid in ruins.
Dan 2:6 But if you show the dream and its interpretation, you shall receive from me gifts and rewards and great
honor. Therefore show me the dream and its interpretation."
Dan 2:7 They answered a second time and said, "Let the king tell his servants the dream, and we will show its
interpretation."
Dan 2:8 The king answered and said, "I know with certainty that you are trying to gain time, because you see
that the word from me is firmDan 2:9 if you do not make the dream known to me, there is but one sentence for you. You have agreed to
speak lying and corrupt words before me till the times change. Therefore tell me the dream, and I shall know that
you can show me its interpretation."
Dan 2:10 The Chaldeans answered the king and said, "There is not a man on earth who can meet the king's
demand, for no great and powerful king has asked such a thing of any magician or enchanter or Chaldean.
Dan 2:11 The thing that the king asks is difficult, and no one can show it to the king except the gods, whose
dwelling is not with flesh."
Dan 2:12 Because of this the king was angry and very furious, and commanded that all the wise men of Babylon
be destroyed.
Dan 2:13 So the decree went out, and the wise men were about to be killed; and they sought Daniel and his
companions, to kill them.
Dan 2:14 Then Daniel replied with prudence and discretion to Arioch, the captain of the king's guard, who had
gone out to kill the wise men of Babylon.
Dan 2:15 He declared to Arioch, the king's captain, "Why is the decree of the king so urgent?" Then Arioch
made the matter known to Daniel.
Dan 2:16 And Daniel went in and requested the king to appoint him a time, that he might show the interpretation
to the king.
Dan 2:17 Then Daniel went to his house and made the matter known to Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, his
companions,
Dan 2:18 and told them to seek mercy from the God of heaven concerning this mystery, so that Daniel and his
companions might not be destroyed with the rest of the wise men of Babylon.
Dan 2:19 Then the mystery was revealed to Daniel in a vision of the night. Then Daniel blessed the God of
heaven.
Dan 2:20 Daniel answered and said: "Blessed be the name of God forever and ever, to whom belong wisdom
and might.Dan 2:21 He changes times and seasons; he removes kings and sets up kings; he gives wisdom to the wise
and knowledge to those who have understanding;
Dan 2:22 he reveals deep and hidden things; he knows what is in the darkness, and the light dwells with him.
Dan 2:23 To you, O God of my fathers, I give thanks and praise, for you have given me wisdom and might, and
have now made known to me what we asked of you, for you have made known to us the king's matter."
Dan 2:24 Therefore Daniel went in to Arioch, whom the king had appointed to destroy the wise men of Babylon.
He went and said thus to him, "Do not destroy the wise men of Babylon; bring me in before the king, and I will
show the king the interpretation."
Dan 2:25 Then Arioch brought in Daniel before the king in haste and said thus to him: "I have found among the
exiles from Judah a man who will make known to the king the interpretation."
Dan 2:26 The king said to Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, "Are you able to make known to me the
dream that I have seen and its interpretation?"
Dan 2:27 Daniel answered the king and said, "No wise men, enchanters, magicians, or astrologers can show to
the king the mystery that the king has asked,
Dan 2:28 but there is a God in heaven who reveals mysteries, and he has made known to King
Nebuchadnezzar what will be in the latter days. Your dream and the visions of your head as you lay in bed are
these:
Dan 2:29 To you, O king, as you lay in bed came thoughts of what would be after this, and he who reveals
mysteries made known to you what is to be.
Dan 2:30 But as for me, this mystery has been revealed to me, not because of any wisdom that I have more
than all the living, but in order that the interpretation may be made known to the king, and that you may know the
thoughts of your mind.
Dan 2:31 "You saw, O king, and behold, a great image. This image, mighty and of exceeding brightness, stood
before you, and its appearance was frightening.
Dan 2:32 The head of this image was of fine gold, its chest and arms of silver, its middle and thighs of bronze,
Dan 2:33 its legs of iron, its feet partly of iron and partly of clay.
Dan 2:34 As you looked, a stone was cut out by no human hand, and it struck the image on its feet of iron and
clay, and broke them in pieces.
Dan 2:35 Then the iron, the clay, the bronze, the silver, and the gold, all together were broken in pieces, and
became like the chaff of the summer threshing floors; and the wind carried them away, so that not a trace of
them could be found. But the stone that struck the image became a great mountain and filled the whole earth.
Dan 2:36 "This was the dream. Now we will tell the king its interpretation.
Dan 2:37 You, O king, the king of kings, to whom the God of heaven has given the kingdom, the power, and the
might, and the glory,
Dan 2:38 and into whose hand he has given, wherever they dwell, the children of man, the beasts of the field,
and the birds of the heavens, making you rule over them all- you are the head of gold.
Dan 2:39 Another kingdom inferior to you shall arise after you, and yet a third kingdom of bronze, which shall
rule over all the earth.
Dan 2:40 And there shall be a fourth kingdom, strong as iron, because iron breaks to pieces and shatters all
things. And like iron that crushes, it shall break and crush all these.
Dan 2:41 And as you saw the feet and toes, partly of potter's clay and partly of iron, it shall be a divided
kingdom, but some of the firmness of iron shall be in it, just as you saw iron mixed with the soft clay.
Dan 2:42 And as the toes of the feet were partly iron and partly clay, so the kingdom shall be partly strong and
partly brittle.
Dan 2:43 As you saw the iron mixed with soft clay, so they will mix with one another in marriage, but they will
not hold together, just as iron does not mix with clay.
Dan 2:44 And in the days of those kings the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that shall never be destroyed,
nor shall the kingdom be left to another people. It shall break in pieces all these kingdoms and bring them to an
end, and it shall stand forever,
Dan 2:45 just as you saw that a stone was cut from a mountain by no human hand, and that it broke in pieces
the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold. A great God has made known to the king what shall be
after this. The dream is certain, and its interpretation sure."
Dan 2:46 Then King Nebuchadnezzar fell upon his face and paid homage to Daniel, and commanded that an
offering and incense be offered up to him.
Dan 2:47 The king answered and said to Daniel, "Truly, your God is God of gods and Lord of kings, and a re
vealer of mysteries, for you have been able to reveal this mystery."
Dan 2:48 Then the king gave Daniel high honors and many great gifts, and made him ruler over the whole
province of Babylon and chief prefect over all the wise men of Babylon.
Dan 2:49 Daniel made a request of the king, and he appointed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego over theaffairs of the province of Babylon. But Daniel remained at the king's court.
Dan 3:1 King Nebuchadnezzar made an image of gold, whose height was sixty cubits and its breadth six cubits.
He set it up on the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon.
Dan 3:2 Then King Nebuchadnezzar sent to gather the satraps, the prefects, and the governors, the counselors,
the treasurers, the justices, the magistrates, and all the officials of the provinces to come to the dedication of the
image that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up.
Dan 3:3 Then the satraps, the prefects, and the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the justices, the
magistrates, and all the officials of the provinces gathered for the dedication of the image that King
Nebuchadnezzar had set up. And they stood before the image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up.
Dan 3:4 And the herald proclaimed aloud, "You are commanded, O peoples, nations, and languages,
Dan 3:5 that when you hear the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, trigon, harp, bagpipe, and every kind of music, you
are to fall down and worship the golden image that King Nebuchadnezzar has set up.
Dan 3:6 And whoever does not fall down and worship shall immediately be cast into a burning fiery furnace."
Dan 3:7 Therefore, as soon as all the peoples heard the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, trigon, harp, bagpipe, and
every kind of music, all the peoples, nations, and languages fell down and worshiped the golden image that King
Nebuchadnezzar had set up.
Dan 3:8 Therefore at that time certain Chaldeans came forward and maliciously accused the Jews.
Dan 3:9 They declared to King Nebuchadnezzar, "O king, live forever!
Dan 3:10 You, O king, have made a decree, that every man who hears the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, trigon,
harp, bagpipe, and every kind of music, shall fall down and worship the golden image.
Dan 3:11 And whoever does not fall down and worship shall be cast into a burning fiery furnace.
Dan 3:12 There are certain Jews whom you have appointed over the affairs of the province of Babylon:
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. These men, O king, pay no attention to you; they do not serve your gods or
worship the golden image that you have set up."
Dan 3:13 Then Nebuchadnezzar in furious rage commanded that Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego be
brought. So they brought these men before the king.
Dan 3:14 Nebuchadnezzar answered and said to them, "Is it true, O Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, that
you do not serve my gods or worship the golden image that I have set up?
Dan 3:15 Now if you are ready when you hear the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, trigon, harp, bagpipe, and every
kind of music, to fall down and worship the image that I have made, well and good. But if you do not worship,
you shall immediately be cast into a burning fiery furnace. And who is the god who will deliver you out of my
hands?"
Dan 3:16 Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego answered and said to the king, "O Nebuchadnezzar, we have no
need to answer you in this matter.
Dan 3:17 If this be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will
deliver us out of your hand, O king.
Dan 3:18 But if not, be it known to you, O king, that we will not serve your gods or worship the golden image
that you have set up."
Dan 3:19 Then Nebuchadnezzar was filled with fury, and the expression of his face was changed against
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. He ordered the furnace heated seven times more than it was usually
heated.
Dan 3:20 And he ordered some of the mighty men of his army to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and
to cast them into the burning fiery furnace.
Dan 3:21 Then these men were bound in their cloaks, their tunics, their hats, and their other garments, and they
were thrown into the burning fiery furnace.
Dan 3:22 Because the king's order was urgent and the furnace overheated, the flame of the fire killed those
men who took up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.
Dan 3:23 And these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, fell bound into the burning fiery furnace.
Dan 3:24 Then King Nebuchadnezzar was astonished and rose up in haste. He declared to his counselors, "Did
we not cast three men bound into the fire?" They answered and said to the king, "True, O king."
Dan 3:25 He answered and said, "But I see four men unbound, walking in the midst of the fire, and they are not
hurt; and the appearance of the fourth is like a son of the gods."
Dan 3:26 Then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the door of the burning fiery furnace; he declared, "Shadrach,
Meshach, and Abednego, servants of the Most High God, come out, and come here!" Then Shadrach, Meshach,
and Abednego came out from the fire.
Dan 3:27 And the satraps, the prefects, the governors, and the king's counselors gathered together and saw
that the fire had not had any power over the bodies of those men. The hair of their heads was not singed, their
cloaks were not harmed, and no smell of fire had come upon them.
Dan 3:28 Nebuchadnezzar answered and said, "Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego,who has sent his angel and delivered his servants, who trusted in him, and set aside the king's command, and
yielded up their bodies rather than serve and worship any god except their own God.
Dan 3:29 Therefore I make a decree: Any people, nation, or language that speaks anything against the God of
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego shall be torn limb from limb, and their houses laid in ruins, for there is no
other god who is able to rescue in this way."
Dan 3:30 Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the province of Babylon.
Dan 4:1 King Nebuchadnezzar to all peo- ples, nations, and languages, that dwell in all the earth: Peace be
multiplied to you!
Dan 4:2 It has seemed good to me to show the signs and wonders that the Most High God has done for me.
Dan 4:3 How great are his signs, how mighty his wonders! His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his
dominion endures from generation to generation.
Dan 4:4 I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at ease in my house and prospering in my palace.
Dan 4:5 I saw a dream that made me afraid. As I lay in bed the fancies and the visions of my head alarmed me.
Dan 4:6 So I made a decree that all the wise men of Babylon should be brought before me, that they might
make known to me the interpretation of the dream.
Dan 4:7 Then the magicians, the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the astrologers came in, and I told them the
dream, but they could not make known to me its interpretation.
Dan 4:8 At last Daniel came in before me- he who was named Belteshazzar after the name of my god, and in
whom is the spirit of the holy gods- and I told him the dream, saying,
Dan 4:9 "O Belteshazzar, chief of the magicians, because I know that the spirit of the holy gods is in you and
that no mystery is too difficult for you, tell me the visions of my dream that I saw and their interpretation.
Dan 4:10 The visions of my head as I lay in bed were these: I saw, and behold, a tree in the midst of the earth,
and its height was great.
Dan 4:11 The tree grew and became strong, and its top reached to heaven, and it was visible to the end of the
whole earth.
Dan 4:12 Its leaves were beautiful and its fruit abundant, and in it was food for all. The beasts of the field found
shade under it, and the birds of the heavens lived in its branches, and all flesh was fed from it.
Dan 4:13 "I saw in the visions of my head as I lay in bed, and behold, a watcher, a holy one, came down from
heaven.
Dan 4:14 He proclaimed aloud and said thus: 'Chop down the tree and lop off its branches, strip off its leaves
and scatter its fruit. Let the beasts flee from under it and the birds from its branches.
Dan 4:15 But leave the stump of its roots in the earth, bound with a band of iron and bronze, amid the tender
grass of the field. Let him be wet with the dew of heaven. Let his portion be with the beasts in the grass of the
earth.
Dan 4:16 Let his mind be changed from a man's, and let a beast's mind be given to him; and let seven periods
of time pass over him.
Dan 4:17 The sentence is by the decree of the watchers, the decision by the word of the holy ones, to the end
that the living may know that the Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he will and sets over
it the lowliest of men.'
Dan 4:18 This dream I, King Nebuchadnezzar, saw. And you, O Belteshazzar, tell me the interpretation,
because all the wise men of my kingdom are not able to make known to me the interpretation, but you are able,
for the spirit of the holy gods is in you."
Dan 4:19 Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was dismayed for a while, and his thoughts alarmed
him. The king answered and said, "Belteshazzar, let not the dream or the interpretation alarm you." Belteshazzar
answered and said, "My lord, may the dream be for those who hate you and its interpretation for your enemies!
Dan 4:20 The tree you saw, which grew and became strong, so that its top reached to heaven, and it was visible
to the end of the whole earth,
Dan 4:21 whose leaves were beautiful and its fruit abundant, and in which was food for all, under which beasts
of the field found shade, and in whose branches the birds of the heavens livedDan 4:22 it is you, O king, who have grown and become strong. Your greatness has grown and reaches to
heaven, and your dominion to the ends of the earth.
Dan 4:23 And because the king saw a watcher, a holy one, coming down from heaven and saying, 'Chop down
the tree and destroy it, but leave the stump of its roots in the earth, bound with a band of iron and bronze, in the
tender grass of the field, and let him be wet with the dew of heaven, and let his portion be with the beasts of the
field, till seven periods of time pass over him,'
Dan 4:24 this is the interpretation, O king: It is a decree of the Most High, which has come upon my lord the
king,
Dan 4:25 that you shall be driven from among men, and your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field. You
shall be made to eat grass like an ox, and you shall be wet with the dew of heaven, and seven periods of timeshall pass over you, till you know that the Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he will.
Dan 4:26 And as it was commanded to leave the stump of the roots of the tree, your kingdom shall be confirmed
for you from the time that you know that Heaven rules.
Dan 4:27 Therefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable to you: break off your sins by practicing
righteousness, and your iniquities by showing mercy to the oppressed, that there may perhaps be a lengthening
of your prosperity."
Dan 4:28 All this came upon King Neb uchadnezzar.
Dan 4:29 At the end of twelve months he was walking on the roof of the royal palace of Babylon,
Dan 4:30 and the king answered and said, "Is not this great Babylon, which I have built by my mighty power as
a royal residence and for the glory of my majesty?"
Dan 4:31 While the words were still in the king's mouth, there fell a voice from heaven, "O King
Nebuchadnezzar, to you it is spoken: The kingdom has departed from you,
Dan 4:32 and you shall be driven from among men, and your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field. And
you shall be made to eat grass like an ox, and seven periods of time shall pass over you, until you know that the
Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he will."
Dan 4:33 Immediately the word was fulfilled against Nebuchadnezzar. He was driven from among men and ate
grass like an ox, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven till his hair grew as long as eagles' feathers, and
his nails were like birds' claws.
Dan 4:34 At the end of the days I, Neb uchadnezzar, lifted my eyes to heaven, and my reason returned to me,
and I blessed the Most High, and praised and honored him who lives forever, for his dominion is an everlasting
dominion, and his kingdom endures from generation to generation;
Dan 4:35 all the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as nothing, and he does according to his will among the
host of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth; and none can stay his hand or say to him, "What have
you done?"
Dan 4:36 At the same time my reason returned to me, and for the glory of my kingdom, my majesty and
splendor returned to me. My counselors and my lords sought me, and I was established in my kingdom, and still
more greatness was added to me.
Dan 4:37 Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of heaven, for all his works are right and
his ways are just; and those who walk in pride he is able to humble.
Dan 5:1 King Belshazzar made a great feast for a thousand of his lords and drank wine in front of the thousand.
Dan 5:2 Belshazzar, when he tasted the wine, commanded that the vessels of gold and of silver that
Nebuchadnezzar his father had taken out of the temple in Jerusalem be brought, that the king and his lords, his
wives, and his concubines might drink from them.
Dan 5:3 Then they brought in the golden vessels that had been taken out of the temple, the house of God in
Jerusalem, and the king and his lords, his wives, and his concubines drank from them.
Dan 5:4 They drank wine and praised the gods of gold and silver, bronze, iron, wood, and stone.
Dan 5:5 Immediately the fingers of a human hand appeared and wrote on the plaster of the wall of the king's
palace, opposite the lampstand. And the king saw the hand as it wrote.
Dan 5:6 Then the king's color changed, and his thoughts alarmed him; his limbs gave way, and his knees
knocked together.
Dan 5:7 The king called loudly to bring in the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the astrologers. The king declared
to the wise men of Babylon, "Whoever reads this writing, and shows me its interpretation, shall be clothed with
purple and have a chain of gold around his neck and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom."
Dan 5:8 Then all the king's wise men came in, but they could not read the writing or make known to the king the
interpretation.
Dan 5:9 Then King Belshazzar was greatly alarmed, and his color changed, and his lords were perplexed.
Dan 5:10 The queen, because of the words of the king and his lords, came into the banqueting hall, and the
queen declared, "O king, live forever! Let not your thoughts alarm you or your color change.
Dan 5:11 There is a man in your kingdom in whom is the spirit of the holy gods. In the days of your father, light
and understanding and wisdom like the wisdom of the gods were found in him, and King Nebuchadnezzar, your
father- your father the king- made him chief of the magicians, enchanters, Chaldeans, and astrologers,
Dan 5:12 because an excellent spirit, knowledge, and understanding to interpret dreams, explain riddles, and
solve problems were found in this Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar. Now let Daniel be called, and he
will show the interpretation."
Dan 5:13 Then Daniel was brought in before the king. The king answered and said to Daniel, "You are that
Daniel, one of the exiles of Judah, whom the king my father brought from Judah.
Dan 5:14 I have heard of you that the spirit of the gods is in you, and that light and understanding and excellent
wisdom are found in you.
Dan 5:15 Now the wise men, the enchanters, have been brought in before me to read this writing and makeknown to me its interpretation, but they could not show the interpretation of the matter.
Dan 5:16 But I have heard that you can give interpretations and solve problems. Now if you can read the writing
and make known to me its interpretation, you shall be clothed with purple and have a chain of gold around your
neck and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom."
Dan 5:17 Then Daniel answered and said before the king, "Let your gifts be for yourself, and give your rewards
to another. Nevertheless, I will read the writing to the king and make known to him the interpretation.
Dan 5:18 O king, the Most High God gave Nebuchadnezzar your father kingship and greatness and glory and
majesty.
Dan 5:19 And because of the greatness that he gave him, all peoples, nations, and languages trembled and
feared before him. Whom he would, he killed, and whom he would, he kept alive; whom he would, he raised up,
and whom he would, he humbled.
Dan 5:20 But when his heart was lifted up and his spirit was hardened so that he dealt proudly, he was brought
down from his kingly throne, and his glory was taken from him.
Dan 5:21 He was driven from among the children of mankind, and his mind was made like that of a beast, and
his dwelling was with the wild donkeys. He was fed grass like an ox, and his body was wet with the dew of
heaven, until he knew that the Most High God rules the kingdom of mankind and sets over it whom he will.
Dan 5:22 And you his son, Belshazzar, have not humbled your heart, though you knew all this,
Dan 5:23 but you have lifted up yourself against the Lord of heaven. And the vessels of his house have been
brought in before you, and you and your lords, your wives, and your concubines have drunk wine from them.
And you have praised the gods of silver and gold, of bronze, iron, wood, and stone, which do not see or hear or
know, but the God in whose hand is your breath, and whose are all your ways, you have not honored.
Dan 5:24 "Then from his presence the hand was sent, and this writing was inscribed.
Dan 5:25 And this is the writing that was inscribed: MENE, MENE, TEKEL, and PARSIN.
Dan 5:26 This is the interpretation of the matter: MENE, God has numbered the days of your kingdom and
brought it to an end;
Dan 5:27 TEKEL, you have been weighed in the balances and found wanting;
Dan 5:28 PERES, your kingdom is divided and given to the Medes and Persians."
Dan 5:29 Then Belshazzar gave the command, and Daniel was clothed with purple, a chain of gold was put
around his neck, and a proclamation was made about him, that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom.
Dan 5:30 That very night Belshazzar the Chaldean king was killed.
Dan 5:31 And Darius the Mede received the kingdom, being about sixty-two years old.
Dan 6:1 It pleased Darius to set over the kingdom 120 satraps, to be throughout the whole kingdom;
Dan 6:2 and over them three presidents, of whom Daniel was one, to whom these satraps should give account,
so that the king might suffer no loss.
Dan 6:3 Then this Daniel became distinguished above all the other presidents and satraps, because an
excellent spirit was in him. And the king planned to set him over the whole kingdom.
Dan 6:4 Then the presidents and the satraps sought to find a ground for complaint against Daniel with regard to
the kingdom, but they could find no ground for complaint or any fault, because he was faithful, and no error or
fault was found in him.
Dan 6:5 Then these men said, "We shall not find any ground for complaint against this Daniel unless we find it
in connection with the law of his God."
Dan 6:6 Then these presidents and satraps came by agreement to the king and said to him, "O King Darius, live
forever!
Dan 6:7 All the presidents of the kingdom, the prefects and the satraps, the counselors and the governors are
agreed that the king should establish an ordinance and enforce an injunction, that whoever makes petition to any
god or man for thirty days, except to you, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions.
Dan 6:8 Now, O king, establish the injunction and sign the document, so that it cannot be changed, according to
the law of the Medes and the Persians, which cannot be revoked."
Dan 6:9 Therefore King Darius signed the document and injunction.
Dan 6:10 When Daniel knew that the document had been signed, he went to his house where he had windows
in his upper chamber open toward Jerusalem. He got down on his knees three times a day and prayed and gave
thanks before his God, as he had done previously.
Dan 6:11 Then these men came by agreement and found Daniel making petition and plea before his God.
Dan 6:12 Then they came near and said before the king, concerning the injunction, "O king! Did you not sign an
injunction, that anyone who makes petition to any god or man within thirty days except to you, O king, shall be
cast into the den of lions?" The king answered and said, "The thing stands fast, according to the law of the
Medes and Persians, which cannot be revoked."
Dan 6:13 Then they answered and said before the king, "Daniel, who is one of the exiles from Judah, pays no
attention to you, O king, or the injunction you have signed, but makes his petition three times a day."Dan 6:14 Then the king, when he heard these words, was much distressed and set his mind to deliver Daniel.
And he labored till the sun went down to rescue him.
Dan 6:15 Then these men came by agreement to the king and said to the king, "Know, O king, that it is a law of
the Medes and Persians that no injunction or ordinance that the king establishes can be changed."
Dan 6:16 Then the king commanded, and Daniel was brought and cast into the den of lions. The king declared
to Daniel, "May your God, whom you serve continually, deliver you!"
Dan 6:17 And a stone was brought and laid on the mouth of the den, and the king sealed it with his own signet
and with the signet of his lords, that nothing might be changed concerning Daniel.
Dan 6:18 Then the king went to his palace and spent the night fasting; no diversions were brought to him, and
sleep fled from him.
Dan 6:19 Then, at break of day, the king arose and went in haste to the den of lions.
Dan 6:20 As he came near to the den where Daniel was, he cried out in a tone of anguish. The king declared to
Daniel, "O Daniel, servant of the living God, has your God, whom you serve continually, been able to deliver you
from the lions?"
Dan 6:21 Then Daniel said to the king, "O king, live forever!
Dan 6:22 My God sent his angel and shut the lions' mouths, and they have not harmed me, because I was
found blameless before him; and also before you, O king, I have done no harm."
Dan 6:23 Then the king was exceedingly glad, and commanded that Daniel be taken up out of the den. So
Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no kind of harm was found on him, because he had trusted in his God.
Dan 6:24 And the king commanded, and those men who had maliciously accused Daniel were brought and cast
into the den of lions- they, their children, and their wives. And before they reached the bottom of the den, the
lions overpowered them and broke all their bones in pieces.
Dan 6:25 Then King Darius wrote to all the peoples, nations, and languages that dwell in all the earth: "Peace
be multiplied to you.
Dan 6:26 I make a decree, that in all my royal dominion people are to tremble and fear before the God of Daniel,
for he is the living God, enduring forever; his kingdom shall never be destroyed, and his dominion shall be to the
end.
Dan 6:27 He delivers and rescues; he works signs and wonders in heaven and on earth, he who has saved
Daniel from the power of the lions."
Dan 6:28 So this Daniel prospered during the reign of Darius and the reign of Cyrus the Persian.
Dan 7:1 In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon, Daniel saw a dream and visions of his head as he lay in
his bed. Then he wrote down the dream and told the sum of the matter.
Dan 7:2 Daniel declared, "I saw in my vision by night, and behold, the four winds of heaven were stirring up the
great sea.
Dan 7:3 And four great beasts came up out of the sea, different from one another.
Dan 7:4 The first was like a lion and had eagles' wings. Then as I looked its wings were plucked off, and it was
lifted up from the ground and made to stand on two feet like a man, and the mind of a man was given to it.
Dan 7:5 And behold, another beast, a second one, like a bear. It was raised up on one side. It had three ribs in
its mouth between its teeth; and it was told, 'Arise, devour much flesh.'
Dan 7:6 After this I looked, and behold, another, like a leopard, with four wings of a bird on its back. And the
beast had four heads, and dominion was given to it.
Dan 7:7 After this I saw in the night visions, and behold, a fourth beast, terrifying and dreadful and exceedingly
strong. It had great iron teeth; it devoured and broke in pieces and stamped what was left with its feet. It was
different from all the beasts that were before it, and it had ten horns.
Dan 7:8 I considered the horns, and behold, there came up among them another horn, a little one, before which
three of the first horns were plucked up by the roots. And behold, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of a man,
and a mouth speaking great things.
Dan 7:9 As I looked, thrones were placed, and the Ancient of days took his seat; his clothing was white as
snow, and the hair of his head like pure wool; his throne was fiery flames; its wheels were burning fire.
Dan 7:10 A stream of fire issued and came out from before him; a thousand thousands served him, and ten
thousand times ten thousand stood before him; the court sat in judgment, and the books were opened.
Dan 7:11 I looked then because of the sound of the great words that the horn was speaking. And as I looked,
the beast was killed, and its body destroyed and given over to be burned with fire.
Dan 7:12 As for the rest of the beasts, their dominion was taken away, but their lives were prolonged for a
season and a time.
Dan 7:13 I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man,
and he came to the Ancient of Days and was presented before him.
Dan 7:14 And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages
should serve him; his dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one thatshall not be destroyed.
Dan 7:15 "As for me, Daniel, my spirit within me was anxious, and the visions of my head alarmed me.
Dan 7:16 I approached one of those who stood there and asked him the truth concerning all this. So he told me
and made known to me the interpretation of the things.
Dan 7:17 'These four great beasts are four kings who shall arise out of the earth.
Dan 7:18 But the saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever, forever
and ever.'
Dan 7:19 "Then I desired to know the truth about the fourth beast, which was different from all the rest,
exceedingly terrifying, with its teeth of iron and claws of bronze, and which devoured and broke in pieces and
stamped what was left with its feet,
Dan 7:20 and about the ten horns that were on its head, and the other horn that came up and before which
three of them fell, the horn that had eyes and a mouth that spoke great things, and that seemed greater than its
companions.
Dan 7:21 As I looked, this horn made war with the saints and prevailed over them,
Dan 7:22 until the Ancient of Days came, and judgment was given for the saints of the Most High, and the time
came when the saints possessed the kingdom.
Dan 7:23 "Thus he said: 'As for the fourth beast, there shall be a fourth kingdom on earth, which shall be
different from all the kingdoms, and it shall devour the whole earth, and trample it down, and break it to pieces.
Dan 7:24 As for the ten horns, out of this kingdom ten kings shall arise, and another shall arise after them; he
shall be different from the former ones, and shall put down three kings.
Dan 7:25 He shall speak words against the Most High, and shall wear out the saints of the Most High, and shall
think to change the times and the law; and they shall be given into his hand for a time, times, and half a time.
Dan 7:26 But the court shall sit in judgment, and his dominion shall be taken away, to be consumed and
destroyed to the end.
Dan 7:27 And the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole heaven shall
be given to the people of the saints of the Most High; their kingdom shall be an everlasting kingdom, and all
dominions shall serve and obey them.'
Dan 7:28 "Here is the end of the matter. As for me, Daniel, my thoughts greatly alarmed me, and my color
changed, but I kept the matter in my heart."
Dan 8:1 In the third year of the reign of King Belshazzar a vision appeared to me, Daniel, after that which
appeared to me at the first.
Dan 8:2 And I saw in the vision; and when I saw, I was in Susa the capital, which is in the province of Elam. And
I saw in the vision, and I was at the Ulai canal.
Dan 8:3 I raised my eyes and saw, and behold, a ram standing on the bank of the canal. It had two horns, and
both horns were high, but one was higher than the other, and the higher one came up last.
Dan 8:4 I saw the ram charging westward and northward and southward. No beast could stand before him, and
there was no one who could rescue from his power. He did as he pleased and became great.
Dan 8:5 As I was considering, behold, a male goat came from the west across the face of the whole earth,
without touching the ground. And the goat had a conspicuous horn between his eyes.
Dan 8:6 He came to the ram with the two horns, which I had seen standing on the bank of the canal, and he ran
at him in his powerful wrath.
Dan 8:7 I saw him come close to the ram, and he was enraged against him and struck the ram and broke his
two horns. And the ram had no power to stand before him, but he cast him down to the ground and trampled on
him. And there was no one who could rescue the ram from his power.
Dan 8:8 Then the goat became exceedingly great, but when he was strong, the great horn was broken, and
instead of it there came up four conspicuous horns toward the four winds of heaven.
Dan 8:9 Out of one of them came a little horn, which grew exceedingly great toward the south, toward the east,
and toward the glorious land.
Dan 8:10 It grew great, even to the host of heaven. And some of the host and some of the stars it threw down to
the ground and trampled on them.
Dan 8:11 It became great, even as great as the Prince of the host. And the regular burnt offering was taken
away from him, and the place of his sanctuary was overthrown.
Dan 8:12 And a host will be given over to it together with the regular burnt offering because of transgression,
and it will throw truth to the ground, and it will act and prosper.
Dan 8:13 Then I heard a holy one speaking, and another holy one said to the one who spoke, "For how long is
the vision concerning the regular burnt offering, the transgression that makes desolate, and the giving over of the
sanctuary and host to be trampled underfoot?"
Dan 8:14 And he said to me, "For 2,300 evenings and mornings. Then the sanctuary shall be restored to its
rightful state."Dan 8:15 When I, Daniel, had seen the vision, I sought to understand it. And behold, there stood before me one
having the appearance of a man.
Dan 8:16 And I heard a man's voice between the banks of the Ulai, and it called, "Gabriel, make this man
understand the vision."
Dan 8:17 So he came near where I stood. And when he came, I was frightened and fell on my face. But he said
to me, "Understand, O son of man, that the vision is for the time of the end."
Dan 8:18 And when he had spoken to me, I fell into a deep sleep with my face to the ground. But he touched
me and made me stand up.
Dan 8:19 He said, "Behold, I will make known to you what shall be at the latter end of the indignation, for it
refers to the appointed time of the end.
Dan 8:20 As for the ram that you saw with the two horns, these are the kings of Media and Persia.
Dan 8:21 And the goat is the king of Greece. And the great horn between his eyes is the first king.
Dan 8:22 As for the horn that was broken, in place of which four others arose, four kingdoms shall arise from his
nation, but not with his power.
Dan 8:23 And at the latter end of their kingdom, when the transgressors have reached their limit, a king of bold
face, one who understands riddles, shall arise.
Dan 8:24 His power shall be great- but not by his own power; and he shall cause fearful destruction and shall
succeed in what he does, and destroy mighty men and the people who are the saints.
Dan 8:25 By his cunning he shall make deceit prosper under his hand, and in his own mind he shall become
great. Without warning he shall destroy many. And he shall even rise up against the Prince of princes, and he
shall be broken- but by no human hand.
Dan 8:26 The vision of the evenings and the mornings that has been told is true, but seal up the vision, for it
refers to many days from now."
Dan 8:27 And I, Daniel, was overcome and lay sick for some days. Then I rose and went about the king's
business, but I was appalled by the vision and did not understand it.
Dan 9:1 In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, by descent a Mede, who was made king over the realm
of the ChaldeansDan 9:2 in the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, perceived in the books the number of years that, according to the
word of the LORD to Jeremiah the prophet, must pass before the end of the desolations of Jerusalem, namely,
seventy years.
Dan 9:3 Then I turned my face to the Lord God, seeking him by prayer and pleas for mercy with fasting and
sackcloth and ashes.
Dan 9:4 I prayed to the LORD my God and made confession, saying, "O Lord, the great and awesome God,
who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments,
Dan 9:5 we have sinned and done wrong and acted wickedly and rebelled, turning aside from your
commandments and rules.
Dan 9:6 We have not listened to your servants the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings, our princes,
and our fathers, and to all the people of the land.
Dan 9:7 To you, O Lord, belongs righteousness, but to us open shame, as at this day, to the men of Judah, to
the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to all Israel, those who are near and those who are far away, in all the lands to
which you have driven them, because of the treachery that they have committed against you.
Dan 9:8 To us, O Lord, belongs open shame, to our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, because we have
sinned against you.
Dan 9:9 To the Lord our God belong mercy and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against him
Dan 9:10 and have not obeyed the voice of the LORD our God by walking in his laws, which he set before us by
his servants the prophets.
Dan 9:11 All Israel has transgressed your law and turned aside, refusing to obey your voice. And the curse and
oath that are written in the Law of Moses the servant of God have been poured out upon us, because we have
sinned against him.
Dan 9:12 He has confirmed his words, which he spoke against us and against our rulers who ruled us, by
bringing upon us a great calamity. For under the whole heaven there has not been done anything like what has
been done against Jerusalem.
Dan 9:13 As it is written in the Law of Moses, all this calamity has come upon us; yet we have not entreated the
favor of the LORD our God, turning from our iniquities and gaining insight by your truth.
Dan 9:14 Therefore the LORD has kept ready the calamity and has brought it upon us, for the LORD our God is
righteous in all the works that he has done, and we have not obeyed his voice.
Dan 9:15 And now, O Lord our God, who brought your people out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and
have made a name for yourself, as at this day, we have sinned, we have done wickedly.
Dan 9:16 "O Lord, according to all your righteous acts, let your anger and your wrath turn away from your cityJerusalem, your holy hill, because for our sins, and for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and your people
have become a byword among all who are around us.
Dan 9:17 Now therefore, O our God, listen to the prayer of your servant and to his pleas for mercy, and for your
own sake, O Lord, make your face to shine upon your sanctuary, which is desolate.
Dan 9:18 O my God, incline your ear and hear. Open your eyes and see our desolations, and the city that is
called by your name. For we do not present our pleas before you because of our righteousness, but because of
your great mercy.
Dan 9:19 O Lord, hear; O Lord, forgive. O Lord, pay attention and act. Delay not, for your own sake, O my God,
because your city and your people are called by your name."
Dan 9:20 While I was speaking and praying, confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel, and presenting
my plea before the LORD my God for the holy hill of my God,
Dan 9:21 while I was speaking in prayer, the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the first, came to me
in swift flight at the time of the evening sacrifice.
Dan 9:22 He made me understand, speaking with me and saying, "O Daniel, I have now come out to give you
insight and understanding.
Dan 9:23 At the beginning of your pleas for mercy a word went out, and I have come to tell it to you, for you are
greatly loved. Therefore consider the word and understand the vision.
Dan 9:24 "Seventy weeks are decreed about your people and your holy city, to finish the transgression, to put
an end to sin, and to atone for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal both vision and prophet, and
to anoint a most holy place.
Dan 9:25 Know therefore and understand that from the going out of the word to restore and build Jerusalem to
the coming of an anointed one, a prince, there shall be seven weeks. Then for sixty-two weeks it shall be built
again with squares and moat, but in a troubled time.
Dan 9:26 And after the sixty-two weeks, an anointed one shall be cut off and shall have nothing. And the people
of the prince who is to come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary. Its end shall come with a flood, and to the
end there shall be war. Desolations are decreed.
Dan 9:27 And he shall make a strong covenant with many for one week, and for half of the week he shall put an
end to sacrifice and offering. And on the wing of abominations shall come one who makes desolate, until the
decreed end is poured out on the desolator."
Dan 10:1 In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia a word was revealed to Daniel, who was named Belteshazzar.
And the word was true, and it was a great conflict. And he understood the word and had understanding of the
vision.
Dan 10:2 In those days I, Daniel, was mourning for three weeks.
Dan 10:3 I ate no delicacies, no meat or wine entered my mouth, nor did I anoint myself at all, for the full three
weeks.
Dan 10:4 On the twenty-fourth day of the first month, as I was standing on the bank of the great river ( that is,
the Tigris)
Dan 10:5 I lifted up my eyes and looked, and behold, a man clothed in linen, with a belt of fine gold from Uphaz
around his waist.
Dan 10:6 His body was like beryl, his face like the appearance of lightning, his eyes like flaming torches, his
arms and legs like the gleam of burnished bronze, and the sound of his words like the sound of a multitude.
Dan 10:7 And I, Daniel, alone saw the vision, for the men who were with me did not see the vision, but a great
trembling fell upon them, and they fled to hide themselves.
Dan 10:8 So I was left alone and saw this great vision, and no strength was left in me. My radiant appearance
was fearfully changed, and I retained no strength.
Dan 10:9 Then I heard the sound of his words, and as I heard the sound of his words, I fell on my face in deep
sleep with my face to the ground.
Dan 10:10 And behold, a hand touched me and set me trembling on my hands and knees.
Dan 10:11 And he said to me, "O Daniel, man greatly loved, understand the words that I speak to you, and
stand upright, for now I have been sent to you." And when he had spoken this word to me, I stood up trembling.
Dan 10:12 Then he said to me, "Fear not, Daniel, for from the first day that you set your heart to understand and
humbled yourself before your God, your words have been heard, and I have come because of your words.
Dan 10:13 The prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me twenty-one days, but Michael, one of the chief
princes, came to help me, for I was left there with the kings of Persia,
Dan 10:14 and came to make you understand what is to happen to your people in the latter days. For the vision
is for days yet to come."
Dan 10:15 When he had spoken to me according to these words, I turned my face toward the ground and was
mute.
Dan 10:16 And behold, one in the likeness of the children of man touched my lips. Then I opened my mouth andspoke. I said to him who stood before me, "O my lord, by reason of the vision pains have come upon me, and I
retain no strength.
Dan 10:17 How can my lord's servant talk with my lord? For now no strength remains in me, and no breath is
left in me."
Dan 10:18 Again one having the appearance of a man touched me and strengthened me.
Dan 10:19 And he said, "O man greatly loved, fear not, peace be with you; be strong and of good courage." And
as he spoke to me, I was strengthened and said, "Let my lord speak, for you have strengthened me."
Dan 10:20 Then he said, "Do you know why I have come to you? But now I will return to fight against the prince
of Persia; and when I go out, behold, the prince of Greece will come.
Dan 10:21 But I will tell you what is inscribed in the book of truth: there is none who contends by my side
against these except Michael, your prince.
Dan 11:1 And as for me, in the first year of Darius the Mede, I stood up to confirm and strengthen him.
Dan 11:2 "And now I will show you the truth. Behold, three more kings shall arise in Persia, and a fourth shall be
far richer than all of them. And when he has become strong through his riches, he shall stir up all against the
kingdom of Greece.
Dan 11:3 Then a mighty king shall arise, who shall rule with great dominion and do as he wills.
Dan 11:4 And as soon as he has arisen, his kingdom shall be broken and divided toward the four winds of
heaven, but not to his posterity, nor according to the authority with which he ruled, for his kingdom shall be
plucked up and go to others besides these.
Dan 11:5 "Then the king of the south shall be strong, but one of his princes shall be stronger than he and shall
rule, and his authority shall be a great authority.
Dan 11:6 After some years they shall make an alliance, and the daughter of the king of the south shall come to
the king of the north to make an agreement. But she shall not retain the strength of her arm, and he and his arm
shall not endure, but she shall be given up, and her attendants, he who fathered her, and he who supported her
in those times.
Dan 11:7 "And from a branch from her roots one shall arise in his place. He shall come against the army and
enter the fortress of the king of the north, and he shall deal with them and shall prevail.
Dan 11:8 He shall also carry off to Egypt their gods with their metal images and their precious vessels of silver
and gold, and for some years he shall refrain from attacking the king of the north.
Dan 11:9 Then the latter shall come into the realm of the king of the south but shall return to his own land.
Dan 11:10 "His sons shall wage war and assemble a multitude of great forces, which shall keep coming and
overflow and pass through, and again shall carry the war as far as his fortress.
Dan 11:11 Then the king of the south, moved with rage, shall come out and fight with the king of the north. And
he shall raise a great multitude, but it shall be given into his hand.
Dan 11:12 And when the multitude is taken away, his heart shall be exalted, and he shall cast down tens of
thousands, but he shall not prevail.
Dan 11:13 For the king of the north shall again raise a multitude, greater than the first. And after some years he
shall come on with a great army and abundant supplies.
Dan 11:14 "In those times many shall rise against the king of the south, and the violent among your own people
shall lift themselves up in order to fulfill the vision, but they shall fail.
Dan 11:15 Then the king of the north shall come and throw up siegeworks and take a well-fortified city. And the
forces of the south shall not stand, or even his best troops, for there shall be no strength to stand.
Dan 11:16 But he who comes against him shall do as he wills, and none shall stand before him. And he shall
stand in the glorious land, with destruction in his hand.
Dan 11:17 He shall set his face to come with the strength of his whole kingdom, and he shall bring terms of an
agreement and perform them. He shall give him the daughter of women to destroy the kingdom, but it shall not
stand or be to his advantage.
Dan 11:18 Afterward he shall turn his face to the coastlands and shall capture many of them, but a commander
shall put an end to his insolence. Indeed, he shall turn his insolence back upon him.
Dan 11:19 Then he shall turn his face back toward the fortresses of his own land, but he shall stumble and fall,
and shall not be found.
Dan 11:20 "Then shall arise in his place one who shall send an exactor of tribute for the glory of the kingdom.
But within a few days he shall be broken, neither in anger nor in battle.
Dan 11:21 In his place shall arise a contemptible person to whom royal majesty has not been given. He shall
come in without warning and obtain the kingdom by flatteries.
Dan 11:22 Armies shall be utterly swept away before him and broken, even the prince of the covenant.
Dan 11:23 And from the time that an alliance is made with him he shall act deceitfully, and he shall become
strong with a small people.
Dan 11:24 Without warning he shall come into the richest parts of the province, and he shall do what neither hisfathers nor his fathers' fathers have done, scattering among them plunder, spoil, and goods. He shall devise
plans against strongholds, but only for a time.
Dan 11:25 And he shall stir up his power and his heart against the king of the south with a great army. And the
king of the south shall wage war with an exceedingly great and mighty army, but he shall not stand, for plots
shall be devised against him.
Dan 11:26 Even those who eat his food shall break him. His army shall be swept away, and many shall fall
down slain.
Dan 11:27 And as for the two kings, their hearts shall be bent on doing evil. They shall speak lies at the same
table, but to no avail, for the end is yet to be at the time appointed.
Dan 11:28 And he shall return to his land with great wealth, but his heart shall be set against the holy covenant.
And he shall work his will and return to his own land.
Dan 11:29 "At the time appointed he shall return and come into the south, but it shall not be this time as it was
before.
Dan 11:30 For ships of Kittim shall come against him, and he shall be afraid and withdraw, and shall turn back
and be enraged and take action against the holy covenant. He shall turn back and pay attention to those who
forsake the holy covenant.
Dan 11:31 Forces from him shall appear and profane the temple and fortress, and shall take away the regular
burnt offering. And they shall set up the abomination that makes desolate.
Dan 11:32 He shall seduce with flattery those who violate the covenant, but the people who know their God
shall stand firm and take action.
Dan 11:33 And the wise among the people shall make many understand, though for some days they shall
stumble by sword and flame, by captivity and plunder.
Dan 11:34 When they stumble, they shall receive a little help. And many shall join themselves to them with
flattery,
Dan 11:35 and some of the wise shall stumble, so that they may be refined, purified, and made white, until the
time of the end, for it still awaits the appointed time.
Dan 11:36 "And the king shall do as he wills. He shall exalt himself and magnify himself above every god, and
shall speak astonishing things against the God of gods. He shall prosper till the indignation is accomplished; for
what is decreed shall be done.
Dan 11:37 He shall pay no attention to the gods of his fathers, or to the one beloved by women. He shall not
pay attention to any other god, for he shall magnify himself above all.
Dan 11:38 He shall honor the god of fortresses instead of these. A god whom his fathers did not know he shall
honor with gold and silver, with precious stones and costly gifts.
Dan 11:39 He shall deal with the strongest fortresses with the help of a foreign god. Those who acknowledge
him he shall load with honor. He shall make them rulers over many and shall divide the land for a price.
Dan 11:40 "At the time of the end, the king of the south shall attack him, but the king of the north shall rush upon
him like a whirlwind, with chariots and horsemen, and with many ships. And he shall come into countries and
shall overflow and pass through.
Dan 11:41 He shall come into the glorious land. And tens of thousands shall fall, but these shall be delivered out
of his hand: Edom and Moab and the main part of the Ammonites.
Dan 11:42 He shall stretch out his hand against the countries, and the land of Egypt shall not escape.
Dan 11:43 He shall become ruler of the treasures of gold and of silver, and all the precious things of Egypt, and
the Libyans and the Cushites shall follow in his train.
Dan 11:44 But news from the east and the north shall alarm him, and he shall go out with great fury to destroy
and devote many to destruction.
Dan 11:45 And he shall pitch his palatial tents between the sea and the glorious holy mountain. Yet he shall
come to his end, with none to help him.
Dan 12:1 "At that time shall arise Michael, the great prince who has charge of your people. And there shall be a
time of trouble, such as never has been since there was a nation till that time. But at that time your people shall
be delivered, everyone whose name shall be found written in the book.
Dan 12:2 And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some
to shame and everlasting contempt.
Dan 12:3 And those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the sky above; and those who turn many to
righ teousness, like the stars forever and ever.
Dan 12:4 But you, Daniel, shut up the words and seal the book, until the time of the end. Many shall run to and
fro, and knowledge shall increase."
Dan 12:5 Then I, Daniel, looked, and behold, two others stood, one on this bank of the stream and one on that
bank of the stream.
Dan 12:6 And someone said to the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the stream, "How longshall it be till the end of these wonders?"
Dan 12:7 And I heard the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the stream; he raised his right
hand and his left hand toward heaven and swore by him who lives forever that it would be for a time, times, and
half a time, and that when the shattering of the power of the holy people comes to an end all these things would
be finished.
Dan 12:8 I heard, but I did not understand. Then I said, "O my lord, what shall be the outcome of these things?"
Dan 12:9 He said, "Go your way, Daniel, for the words are shut up and sealed until the time of the end.
Dan 12:10 Many shall purify themselves and make themselves white and be refined, but the wicked shall act
wickedly. And none of the wicked shall understand, but those who are wise shall understand.
Dan 12:11 And from the time that the regular burnt offering is taken away and the abomination that makes
desolate is set up, there shall be 1,290 days.
Dan 12:12 Blessed is he who waits and arrives at the 1,335 days.
Dan 12:13 But go your way till the end. And you shall rest and shall stand in your allotted place at the end of the
days."
Hos 1:1 The word of the LORD that came to Hosea, the son of Beeri, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and
Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel.
Hos 1:2 When the LORD first spoke through Hosea, the LORD said to Hosea, "Go, take to yourself a wife of
whoredom and have children of whoredom, for the land commits great whoredom by forsaking the LORD."
Hos 1:3 So he went and took Gomer, the daughter of Diblaim, and she conceived and bore him a son.
Hos 1:4 And the LORD said to him, "Call his name Jezreel, for in just a little while I will punish the house of Jehu
for the blood of Jezreel, and I will put an end to the kingdom of the house of Israel.
Hos 1:5 And on that day I will break the bow of Israel in the Valley of Jezreel."
Hos 1:6 She conceived again and bore a daughter. And the LORD said to him, "Call her name No Mercy, for I
will no more have mercy on the house of Israel, to forgive them at all.
Hos 1:7 But I will have mercy on the house of Judah, and I will save them by the LORD their God. I will not save
them by bow or by sword or by war or by horses or by horsemen."
Hos 1:8 When she had weaned No Mercy, she conceived and bore a son.
Hos 1:9 And the LORD said, "Call his name Not My People, for you are not my people, and I am not your God."
Hos 1:10 Yet the number of the children of Israel shall be like the sand of the sea, which cannot be measured
or numbered. And in the place where it was said to them, "You are not my people," it shall be said to them,
"Children of the living God."
Hos 1:11 And the children of Judah and the children of Israel shall be gathered together, and they shall appoint
for themselves one head. And they shall go up from the land, for great shall be the day of Jezreel.
Hos 2:1 Say to your brothers, "You are my people," and to your sisters, "You have received mercy."
Hos 2:2 "Plead with your mother, plead- for she is not my wife, and I am not her husband- that she put away her
whoring from her face, and her adultery from between her breasts;
Hos 2:3 lest I strip her naked and make her as in the day she was born, and make her like a wilderness, and
make her like a parched land, and kill her with thirst.
Hos 2:4 Upon her children also I will have no mercy, because they are children of whoredom.
Hos 2:5 For their mother has played the whore; she who conceived them has acted shamefully. For she said, 'I
will go after my lovers, who give me my bread and my water, my wool and my flax, my oil and my drink.'
Hos 2:6 Therefore I will hedge up her way with thorns, and I will build a wall against her, so that she cannot find
her paths.
Hos 2:7 She shall pursue her lovers but not overtake them, and she shall seek them but shall not find them.
Then she shall say, 'I will go and return to my first husband, for it was better for me then than now.'
Hos 2:8 And she did not know that it was I who gave her the grain, the wine, and the oil, and who lavished on
her silver and gold, which they used for Baal.
Hos 2:9 Therefore I will take back my grain in its time, and my wine in its season, and I will take away my wool
and my flax, which were to cover her nakedness.
Hos 2:10 Now I will uncover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers, and no one shall rescue her out of my hand.
Hos 2:11 And I will put an end to all her mirth, her feasts, her new moons, her Sabbaths, and all her appointed
feasts.
Hos 2:12 And I will lay waste her vines and her fig trees, of which she said, 'These are my wages, which my
lovers have given me.' I will make them a forest, and the beasts of the field shall devour them.
Hos 2:13 And I will punish her for the feast days of the Baals when she burned offerings to them and adorned
herself with her ring and jewelry, and went after her lovers and forgot me, declares the LORD.
Hos 2:14 "Therefore, behold, I will allure her, and bring her into the wilderness, and speak tenderly to her.
Hos 2:15 And there I will give her her vineyards and make the Valley of Achor a door of hope. And there she
shall answer as in the days of her youth, as at the time when she came out of the land of Egypt.Hos 2:16 "And in that day, declares the LORD, you will call me 'My Husband,' and no longer will you call me 'My
Baal.'
Hos 2:17 For I will remove the names of the Baals from her mouth, and they shall be remembered by name no
more.
Hos 2:18 And I will make for them a covenant on that day with the beasts of the field, the birds of the heavens,
and the creeping things of the ground. And I will abolish the bow, the sword, and war from the land, and I will
make you lie down in safety.
Hos 2:19 And I will betroth you to me forever. I will betroth you to me in righteousness and in justice, in
steadfast love and in mercy.
Hos 2:20 I will betroth you to me in faithfulness. And you shall know the LORD.
Hos 2:21 "And in that day I will answer, declares the LORD, I will answer the heavens, and they shall answer
the earth,
Hos 2:22 and the earth shall answer the grain, the wine, and the oil, and they shall answer Jezreel,
Hos 2:23 and I will sow her for myself in the land. And I will have mercy on No Mercy, and I will say to Not My
People, 'You are my people'; and he shall say, 'You are my God.'"
Hos 3:1 And the LORD said to me, "Go again, love a woman who is loved by another man and is an adulteress,
even as the LORD loves the children of Israel, though they turn to other gods and love cakes of raisins."
Hos 3:2 So I bought her for fifteen shekels of silver and a homer and a lethech of barley.
Hos 3:3 And I said to her, "You must dwell as mine for many days. You shall not play the whore, or belong to
another man; so will I also be to you."
Hos 3:4 For the children of Israel shall dwell many days without king or prince, without sacrifice or pillar, without
ephod or household gods.
Hos 3:5 Afterward the children of Israel shall return and seek the LORD their God, and David their king, and
they shall come in fear to the LORD and to his goodness in the latter days.
Hos 4:1 Hear the word of the LORD, O children of Israel, for the LORD has a controversy with the inhabitants of
the land. There is no faithfulness or steadfast love, and no knowledge of God in the land;
Hos 4:2 there is swearing, lying, murder, stealing, and committing adultery; they break all bounds, and
bloodshed follows bloodshed.
Hos 4:3 Therefore the land mourns, and all who dwell in it languish, and also the beasts of the field and the
birds of the heavens, and even the fish of the sea are taken away.
Hos 4:4 Yet let no one contend, and let none accuse, for with you is my contention, O priest.
Hos 4:5 You shall stumble by day; the prophet also shall stumble with you by night; and I will destroy your
mother.
Hos 4:6 My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge; because you have rejected knowledge, I reject you
from being a priest to me. And since you have forgotten the law of your God, I also will forget your children.
Hos 4:7 The more they increased, the more they sinned against me; I will change their glory into shame.
Hos 4:8 They feed on the sin of my people; they are greedy for their iniquity.
Hos 4:9 And it shall be like people, like priest; I will punish them for their ways and repay them for their deeds.
Hos 4:10 They shall eat, but not be satisfied; they shall play the whore, but not multiply, because they have
forsaken the LORD to cherish
Hos 4:11 whoredom, wine, and new wine, which take away the understanding.
Hos 4:12 My people inquire of a piece of wood, and their walking staff gives them oracles. For a spirit of
whoredom has led them astray, and they have left their God to play the whore.
Hos 4:13 They sacrifice on the tops of the mountains and burn offerings on the hills, under oak, poplar, and
terebinth, because their shade is good. Therefore your daughters play the whore, and your brides commit
adultery.
Hos 4:14 I will not punish your daughters when they play the whore, nor your brides when they commit adultery;
for the men themselves go aside with prostitutes and sacrifice with cult prostitutes, and a people without
understanding shall come to ruin.
Hos 4:15 Though you play the whore, O Israel, let not Judah become guilty. Enter not into Gilgal, nor go up to
Beth-aven, and swear not, "As the LORD lives."
Hos 4:16 Like a stubborn heifer, Israel is stubborn; can the LORD now feed them like a lamb in a broad
pasture?
Hos 4:17 Ephraim is joined to idols; leave him alone.
Hos 4:18 When their drink is gone, they give themselves to whoring; their rulers dearly love shame.
Hos 4:19 A wind has wrapped them in its wings, and they shall be ashamed because of their sacrifices.
Hos 5:1 Hear this, O priests! Pay attention, O house of Israel! Give ear, O house of the king! For the judgment is
for you; for you have been a snare at Mizpah and a net spread upon Tabor.
Hos 5:2 And the revolters have gone deep into slaughter, but I will discipline all of them.Hos 5:3 I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hidden from me; for now, O Ephraim, you have played the whore;
Israel is defiled.
Hos 5:4 Their deeds do not permit them to return to their God. For the spirit of whoredom is within them, and
they know not the LORD.
Hos 5:5 The pride of Israel testifies to his face; Israel and Ephraim shall stumble in his guilt; Judah also shall
stumble with them.
Hos 5:6 With their flocks and herds they shall go to seek the LORD, but they will not find him; he has withdrawn
from them.
Hos 5:7 They have dealt faithlessly with the LORD; for they have borne alien children. Now the new moon shall
devour them with their fields.
Hos 5:8 Blow the horn in Gibeah, the trumpet in Ramah. Sound the alarm at Beth-aven; we follow you, O
Benjamin!
Hos 5:9 Ephraim shall become a desolation in the day of punishment; among the tribes of Israel I make known
what is sure.
Hos 5:10 The princes of Judah have become like those who move the landmark; upon them I will pour out my
wrath like water.
Hos 5:11 Ephraim is oppressed, crushed in judgment, because he was determined to go after filth.
Hos 5:12 But I am like a moth to Ephraim, and like dry rot to the house of Judah.
Hos 5:13 When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah his wound, then Ephraim went to Assyria, and sent to the
great king. But he is not able to cure you or heal your wound.
Hos 5:14 For I will be like a lion to Ephraim, and like a young lion to the house of Judah. I, even I, will tear and
go away; I will carry off, and no one shall rescue.
Hos 5:15 I will return again to my place, until they acknowledge their guilt and seek my face, and in their distress
earnestly seek me.
Hos 6:1 "Come, let us return to the LORD; for he has torn us, that he may heal us; he has struck us down, and
he will bind us up.
Hos 6:2 After two days he will revive us; on the third day he will raise us up, that we may live before him.
Hos 6:3 Let us know; let us press on to know the LORD; his going out is sure as the dawn; he will come to us as
the showers, as the spring rains that water the earth."
Hos 6:4 What shall I do with you, O Ephraim? What shall I do with you, O Judah? Your love is like a morning
cloud, like the dew that goes early away.
Hos 6:5 Therefore I have hewn them by the prophets; I have slain them by the words of my mouth, and my
judgment goes forth as the light.
Hos 6:6 For I desire steadfast love and not sacrifice, the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings.
Hos 6:7 But like Adam they transgressed the covenant; there they dealt faithlessly with me.
Hos 6:8 Gilead is a city of evildoers, tracked with blood.
Hos 6:9 As robbers lie in wait for a man, so the priests band together; they murder on the way to Shechem; they
commit villainy.
Hos 6:10 In the house of Israel I have seen a horrible thing; Ephraim's whoredom is there; Israel is defiled.
Hos 6:11 For you also, O Judah, a harvest is appointed, when I restore the fortunes of my people.
Hos 7:1 When I would heal Israel, the iniquity of Ephraim is revealed, and the evil deeds of Samaria; for they
deal falsely; the thief breaks in, and the bandits raid outside.
Hos 7:2 But they do not consider that I remember all their evil. Now their deeds surround them; they are before
my face.
Hos 7:3 By their evil they make the king glad, and the princes by their treachery.
Hos 7:4 They are all adulterers; they are like a heated oven whose baker ceases to stir the fire, from the
kneading of the dough until it is leavened.
Hos 7:5 On the day of our king, the princes became sick with the heat of wine; he stretched out his hand with
mockers.
Hos 7:6 For with hearts like an oven they approach their intrigue; all night their anger smolders; in the morning it
blazes like a flaming fire.
Hos 7:7 All of them are hot as an oven, and they devour their rulers. All their kings have fallen, and none of
them calls upon me.
Hos 7:8 Ephraim mixes himself with the peoples; Ephraim is a cake not turned.
Hos 7:9 Strangers devour his strength, and he knows it not; gray hairs are sprinkled upon him, and he knows it
not.
Hos 7:10 The pride of Israel testifies to his face; yet they do not return to the LORD their God, nor seek him, for
all this.
Hos 7:11 Ephraim is like a dove, silly and without sense, calling to Egypt, going to Assyria.Hos 7:12 As they go, I will spread over them my net; I will bring them down like birds of the heavens; I will
discipline them according to the report made to their congregation.
Hos 7:13 Woe to them, for they have strayed from me! Destruction to them, for they have rebelled against me! I
would redeem them, but they speak lies against me.
Hos 7:14 They do not cry to me from the heart, but they wail upon their beds; for grain and wine they gash
themselves; they rebel against me.
Hos 7:15 Although I trained and strengthened their arms, yet they devise evil against me.
Hos 7:16 They return, but not upwards; they are like a treacherous bow; their princes shall fall by the sword
because of the insolence of their tongue. This shall be their derision in the land of Egypt.
Hos 8:1 Set the trumpet to your lips!One like a vulture is over the house of the LORD, because they have
transgressed my covenant and rebelled against my law.
Hos 8:2 To me they cry, My God, we- Israel- know you.
Hos 8:3 Israel has spurned the good; the enemy shall pursue him.
Hos 8:4 They made kings, but not through me. They set up princes, but I knew it not. With their silver and gold
they made idols for their own destruction.
Hos 8:5 I have spurned your calf, O Samaria. My anger burns against them. How long will they be incapable of
innocence?
Hos 8:6 For it is from Israel; a craftsman made it; it is not God. The calf of Samaria shall be broken to pieces.
Hos 8:7 For they sow the wind, and they shall reap the whirlwind. The standing grain has no heads; it shall yield
no flour; if it were to yield, strangers would devour it.
Hos 8:8 Israel is swallowed up; already they are among the nations as a useless vessel.
Hos 8:9 For they have gone up to Assyria, a wild donkey wandering alone; Ephraim has hired lovers.
Hos 8:10 Though they hire allies among the nations, I will soon gather them up. And the king and princes shall
soon writhe because of the tribute.
Hos 8:11 Because Ephraim has multiplied altars for sinning, they have become to him altars for sinning.
Hos 8:12 Were I to write for him my laws by the ten thousands, they would be regarded as a strange thing.
Hos 8:13 As for my sacrificial offerings, they sacrifice meat and eat it, but the LORD does not accept them. Now
he will remember their iniquity and punish their sins; they shall return to Egypt.
Hos 8:14 For Israel has forgotten his Maker and built palaces, and Judah has multiplied fortified cities; so I will
send a fire upon his cities, and it shall devour her strongholds.
Hos 9:1 Rejoice not, O Israel!Exult not like the peoples; for you have played the whore, forsaking your God. You
have loved a prostitute's wages on all threshing floors.
Hos 9:2 Threshing floor and wine vat shall not feed them, and the new wine shall fail them.
Hos 9:3 They shall not remain in the land of the LORD, but Ephraim shall return to Egypt, and they shall eat
unclean food in Assyria.
Hos 9:4 They shall not pour drink offerings of wine to the LORD, and their sacrifices shall not please him. It shall
be like mourners' bread to them; all who eat of it shall be defiled; for their bread shall be for their hunger only; it
shall not come to the house of the LORD.
Hos 9:5 What will you do on the day of the appointed festival, and on the day of the feast of the LORD?
Hos 9:6 For behold, they are going away from destruction; but Egypt shall gather them; Memphis shall bury
them. Nettles shall possess their precious things of silver; thorns shall be in their tents.
Hos 9:7 The days of punishment have come; the days of recompense have come; Israel shall know it. The
prophet is a fool; the man of the spirit is mad, because of your great iniquity and great hatred.
Hos 9:8 The prophet is the watchman of Ephraim with my God; yet a fowler's snare is on all his ways, and
hatred in the house of his God.
Hos 9:9 They have deeply corrupted themselves as in the days of Gibeah: he will remember their iniquity; he
will punish their sins.
Hos 9:10 Like grapes in the wilderness, I found Israel. Like the first fruit on the fig tree in its first season, I saw
your fathers. But they came to Baal-peor and consecrated themselves to the thing of shame, and became
detestable like the thing they loved.
Hos 9:11 Ephraim's glory shall fly away like a bird- no birth, no pregnancy, no conception!
Hos 9:12 Even if they bring up children, I will bereave them till none is left. Woe to them when I depart from
them!
Hos 9:13 Ephraim, as I have seen, was like a young palm planted in a meadow; but Ephraim must lead his
children out to slaughter.
Hos 9:14 Give them, O LORD- what will you give? Give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts.
Hos 9:15 Every evil of theirs is in Gilgal; there I began to hate them. Because of the wickedness of their deeds I
will drive them out of my house. I will love them no more; all their princes are rebels.
Hos 9:16 Ephraim is stricken; their root is dried up; they shall bear no fruit. Even though they give birth, I will puttheir beloved children to death.
Hos 9:17 My God will reject them because they have not listened to him; they shall be wanderers among the
nations.
Hos 10:1 Israel is a luxuriant vine that yields its fruit. The more his fruit increased, the more altars he built; as his
country improved, he improved his pillars.
Hos 10:2 Their heart is false; now they must bear their guilt. The LORD will break down their altars and destroy
their pillars.
Hos 10:3 For now they will say: "We have no king, for we do not fear the LORD; and a king- what could he do
for us?"
Hos 10:4 They utter mere words; with empty oaths they make covenants; so judgment springs up like poisonous
weeds in the furrows of the field.
Hos 10:5 The inhabitants of Samaria tremble for the calf of Beth-aven. Its people mourn for it, and so do its
idolatrous priests- those who rejoiced over it and over its glory- for it has departed from them.
Hos 10:6 The thing itself shall be carried to Assyria as tribute to the great king. Ephraim shall be put to shame,
and Israel shall be ashamed of his idol.
Hos 10:7 Samaria's king shall perish like a twig on the face of the waters.
Hos 10:8 The high places of Aven, the sin of Israel, shall be destroyed. Thorn and thistle shall grow up on their
altars, and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us, and to the hills, Fall on us.
Hos 10:9 From the days of Gibeah, you have sinned, O Israel; there they have continued. Shall not the war
against the unjust overtake them in Gibeah?
Hos 10:10 When I please, I will discipline them, and nations shall be gathered against them when they are
bound up for their double iniquity.
Hos 10:11 Ephraim was a trained calf that loved to thresh, and I spared her fair neck; but I will put Ephraim to
the yoke; Judah must plow; Jacob must harrow for himself.
Hos 10:12 Sow for yourselves righteousness; reap steadfast love; break up your fallow ground, for it is the time
to seek the LORD, that he may come and rain righteousness upon you.
Hos 10:13 You have plowed iniquity; you have reaped injustice; you have eaten the fruit of lies. Because you
have trusted in your own way and in the multitude of your warriors,
Hos 10:14 therefore the tumult of war shall arise among your people, and all your fortresses shall be destroyed,
as Shalman destroyed Beth-arbel on the day of battle; mothers were dashed in pieces with their children.
Hos 10:15 Thus it shall be done to you, O Bethel, because of your great evil. At dawn the king of Israel shall be
utterly cut off.
Hos 11:1 When Israel was a child, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son.
Hos 11:2 The more they were called, the more they went away; they kept sacrificing to the Baals and burning
offerings to idols.
Hos 11:3 Yet it was I who taught Ephraim to walk; I took them up by their arms, but they did not know that I
healed them.
Hos 11:4 I led them with cords of kindness, with the bands of love, and I became to them as one who eases the
yoke on their jaws, and I bent down to them and fed them.
Hos 11:5 They shall not return to the land of Egypt, but Assyria shall be their king, because they have refused to
return to me.
Hos 11:6 The sword shall rage against their cities, consume the bars of their gates, and devour them because
of their own counsels.
Hos 11:7 My people are bent on turning away from me, and though they call out to the Most High, he shall not
raise them up at all.
Hos 11:8 How can I give you up, O Ephraim? How can I hand you over, O Israel? How can I make you like
Admah? How can I treat you like Zeboiim? My heart recoils within me; my compassion grows warm and tender.
Hos 11:9 I will not execute my burning anger; I will not again destroy Ephraim; for I am God and not a man, the
Holy One in your midst, and I will not come in wrath.
Hos 11:10 They shall go after the LORD; he will roar like a lion; when he roars, his children shall come trembling
from the west;
Hos 11:11 they shall come trembling like birds from Egypt, and like doves from the land of Assyria, and I will
return them to their homes, declares the LORD.
Hos 11:12 Ephraim has surrounded me with lies, and the house of Israel with deceit, but Judah still walks with
God and is faithful to the Holy One.
Hos 12:1 Ephraim feeds on the windand pursues the east wind all day long; they multiply falsehood and
violence; they make a covenant with Assyria, and oil is carried to Egypt.
Hos 12:2 The LORD has an indictment against Judah and will punish Jacob according to his ways; he will repay
him according to his deeds.Hos 12:3 In the womb he took his brother by the heel, and in his manhood he strove with God.
Hos 12:4 He strove with the angel and prevailed; he wept and sought his favor. He met God at Bethel, and there
God spoke with usHos 12:5 the LORD, the God of hosts, the LORD is his memorial name:
Hos 12:6 "So you, by the help of your God, return, hold fast to love and justice, and wait continually for your
God."
Hos 12:7 A merchant, in whose hands are false balances, he loves to oppress.
Hos 12:8 Ephraim has said, "Ah, but I am rich; I have found wealth for myself; in all my labors they cannot find
in me iniquity or sin."
Hos 12:9 I am the LORD your God from the land of Egypt; I will again make you dwell in tents, as in the days of
the appointed feast.
Hos 12:10 I spoke to the prophets; it was I who multiplied visions, and through the prophets gave parables.
Hos 12:11 If there is iniquity in Gilead, they shall surely come to nothing: in Gilgal they sacrifice bulls; their altars
also are like stone heaps on the furrows of the field.
Hos 12:12 Jacob fled to the land of Aram; there Israel served for a wife, and for a wife he guarded sheep.
Hos 12:13 By a prophet the LORD brought Israel up from Egypt, and by a prophet he was guarded.
Hos 12:14 Ephraim has given bitter provocation; so his Lord will leave his bloodguilt on him and will repay him
for his disgraceful deeds.
Hos 13:1 When Ephraim spoke, there was trembling; he was exalted in Israel, but he incurred guilt through Baal
and died.
Hos 13:2 And now they sin more and more, and make for themselves metal images, idols skillfully made of their
silver, all of them the work of craftsmen. It is said of them, "Those who offer human sacrifice kiss calves!"
Hos 13:3 Therefore they shall be like the morning mist or like the dew that goes early away, like the chaff that
swirls from the threshing floor or like smoke from a window.
Hos 13:4 But I am the LORD your God from the land of Egypt; you know no God but me, and besides me there
is no savior.
Hos 13:5 It was I who knew you in the wilderness, in the land of drought;
Hos 13:6 but when they had grazed, they became full, they were filled, and their heart was lifted up; therefore
they forgot me.
Hos 13:7 So I am to them like a lion; like a leopard I will lurk beside the way.
Hos 13:8 I will fall upon them like a bear robbed of her cubs; I will tear open their breast, and there I will devour
them like a lion, as a wild beast would rip them open.
Hos 13:9 He destroys you, O Israel, for you are against me, against your helper.
Hos 13:10 Where now is your king, to save you in all your cities? Where are all your rulers- those of whom you
said, "Give me a king and princes"?
Hos 13:11 I gave you a king in my anger, and I took him away in my wrath.
Hos 13:12 The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up; his sin is kept in store.
Hos 13:13 The pangs of childbirth come for him, but he is an unwise son, for at the right time he does not
present himself at the opening of the womb.
Hos 13:14 Shall I ransom them from the power of Sheol? Shall I redeem them from Death? O Death, where are
your plagues? O Sheol, where is your sting? Compassion is hidden from my eyes.
Hos 13:15 Though he may flourish among his brothers, the east wind, the wind of the LORD, shall come, rising
from the wilderness, and his fountain shall dry up; his spring shall be parched; it shall strip his treasury of every
precious thing.
Hos 13:16 Samaria shall bear her guilt, because she has rebelled against her God; they shall fall by the sword;
their little ones shall be dashed in pieces, and their pregnant women ripped open.
Hos 14:1 Return, O Israel, to the LORD your God, for you have stumbled because of your iniquity.
Hos 14:2 Take with you words and return to the LORD; say to him, "Take away all iniquity; accept what is good,
and we will pay with bulls the vows of our lips.
Hos 14:3 Assyria shall not save us; we will not ride on horses; and we will say no more, 'Our God,' to the work
of our hands. In you the orphan finds mercy."
Hos 14:4 I will heal their apostasy; I will love them freely, for my anger has turned from them.
Hos 14:5 I will be like the dew to Israel; he shall blossom like the lily; he shall take root like the trees of Lebanon;
Hos 14:6 his shoots shall spread out; his beauty shall be like the olive, and his fragrance like Lebanon.
Hos 14:7 They shall return and dwell beneath my shadow; they shall flourish like the grain; they shall blossom
like the vine; their fame shall be like the wine of Lebanon.
Hos 14:8 O Ephraim, what have I to do with idols? It is I who answer and look after you. I am like an evergreen
cypress; from me comes your fruit.
Hos 14:9 Whoever is wise, let him understand these things; whoever is discerning, let him know them; for theways of the LORD are right, and the upright walk in them, but transgressors stumble in them.
Joe 1:1 The word of the LORD that came to Joel, the son of Pethuel:
Joe 1:2 Hear this, you elders; give ear, all inhabitants of the land! Has such a thing happened in your days, or in
the days of your fathers?
Joe 1:3 Tell your children of it, and let your children tell their children, and their children to another generation.
Joe 1:4 What the cutting locust left, the swarming locust has eaten. What the swarming locust left, the hopping
locust has eaten, and what the hopping locust left, the destroying locust has eaten.
Joe 1:5 Awake, you drunkards, and weep, and wail, all you drinkers of wine, because of the sweet wine, for it is
cut off from your mouth.
Joe 1:6 For a nation has come up against my land, powerful and beyond number; its teeth are lions' teeth, and it
has the fangs of a lioness.
Joe 1:7 It has laid waste my vine and splintered my fig tree; it has stripped off their bark and thrown it down;
their branches are made white.
Joe 1:8 Lament like a virgin wearing sackcloth for the bridegroom of her youth.
Joe 1:9 The grain offering and the drink offering are cut off from the house of the LORD. The priests mourn, the
ministers of the LORD.
Joe 1:10 The fields are destroyed, the ground mourns, because the grain is destroyed, the wine dries up, the oil
languishes.
Joe 1:11 Be ashamed, O tillers of the soil; wail, O vinedressers, for the wheat and the barley, because the
harvest of the field has perished.
Joe 1:12 The vine dries up; the fig tree languishes. Pomegranate, palm, and apple, all the trees of the field are
dried up, and gladness dries up from the children of man.
Joe 1:13 Put on sackcloth and lament, O priests; wail, O ministers of the altar. Go in, pass the night in
sackcloth, O ministers of my God! Because grain offering and drink offering are withheld from the house of your
God.
Joe 1:14 Consecrate a fast; call a solemn assembly. Gather the elders and all the inhabitants of the land to the
house of the LORD your God, and cry out to the LORD.
Joe 1:15 Alas for the day! For the day of the LORD is near, and as destruction from the Almighty it comes.
Joe 1:16 Is not the food cut off before our eyes, joy and gladness from the house of our God?
Joe 1:17 The seed shrivels under the clods; the storehouses are desolate; the granaries are torn down because
the grain has dried up.
Joe 1:18 How the beasts groan! The herds of cattle are perplexed because there is no pasture for them; even
the flocks of sheep suffer.
Joe 1:19 To you, O LORD, I call. For fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness, and flame has burned all
the trees of the field.
Joe 1:20 Even the beasts of the field pant for you because the water brooks are dried up, and fire has devoured
the pastures of the wilderness.
Joe 2:1 Blow a trumpet in Zion;sound an alarm on my holy mountain! Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble,
for the day of the LORD is coming; it is near,
Joe 2:2 a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness! Like blackness there is spread upon
the mountains a great and powerful people; their like has never been before, nor will be again after them through
the years of all generations.
Joe 2:3 Fire devours before them, and behind them a flame burns. The land is like the garden of Eden before
them, but behind them a desolate wilderness, and nothing escapes them.
Joe 2:4 Their appearance is like the appearance of horses, and like war horses they run.
Joe 2:5 As with the rumbling of chariots, they leap on the tops of the mountains, like the crackling of a flame of
fire devouring the stubble, like a powerful army drawn up for battle.
Joe 2:6 Before them peoples are in anguish; all faces grow pale.
Joe 2:7 Like warriors they charge; like soldiers they scale the wall. They march each on his way; they do not
swerve from their paths.
Joe 2:8 They do not jostle one another; each marches in his path; they burst through the weapons and are not
halted.
Joe 2:9 They leap upon the city, they run upon the walls, they climb up into the houses, they enter through the
windows like a thief.
Joe 2:10 The earth quakes before them; the heavens tremble. The sun and the moon are darkened, and the
stars withdraw their shining.
Joe 2:11 The LORD utters his voice before his army, for his camp is exceedingly great; he who executes his
word is powerful. For the day of the LORD is great and very awesome; who can endure it?
Joe 2:12 "Yet even now," declares the LORD, "return to me with all your heart, with fasting, with weeping, andwith mourning;
Joe 2:13 and rend your hearts and not your garments." Return to the LORD, your God, for he is gracious and
merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love; and he relents over disaster.
Joe 2:14 Who knows whether he will not turn and relent, and leave a blessing behind him, a grain offering and a
drink offering for the LORD your God?
Joe 2:15 Blow the trumpet in Zion; consecrate a fast; call a solemn assembly;
Joe 2:16 gather the people. Consecrate the congregation; assemble the elders; gather the children, even
nursing infants. Let the bridegroom leave his room, and the bride her chamber.
Joe 2:17 Between the vestibule and the altar let the priests, the ministers of the LORD, weep and say, "Spare
your people, O LORD, and make not your heritage a reproach, a byword among the nations. Why should they
say among the peoples, 'Where is their God?'"
Joe 2:18 Then the LORD became jealous for his land and had pity on his people.
Joe 2:19 The LORD answered and said to his people, "Behold, I am sending to you grain, wine, and oil, and you
will be satisfied; and I will no more make you a reproach among the nations.
Joe 2:20 "I will remove the northerner far from you, and drive him into a parched and desolate land, his
vanguard into the eastern sea, and his rear guard into the western sea; the stench and foul smell of him will rise,
for he has done great things.
Joe 2:21 "Fear not, O land; be glad and rejoice, for the LORD has done great things!
Joe 2:22 Fear not, you beasts of the field, for the pastures of the wilderness are green; the tree bears its fruit;
the fig tree and vine give their full yield.
Joe 2:23 "Be glad, O children of Zion, and rejoice in the LORD your God, for he has given the early rain for your
vindication; he has poured down for you abundant rain, the early and the latter rain, as before.
Joe 2:24 "The threshing floors shall be full of grain; the vats shall overflow with wine and oil.
Joe 2:25 I will restore to you the years that the swarming locust has eaten, the hopper, the destroyer, and the
cutter, my great army, which I sent among you.
Joe 2:26 "You shall eat in plenty and be satisfied, and praise the name of the LORD your God, who has dealt
wondrously with you. And my people shall never again be put to shame.
Joe 2:27 You shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am the LORD your God and there is none
else. And my people shall never again be put to shame.
Joe 2:28 "And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh; your sons and your
daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions.
Joe 2:29 Even on the male and female servants in those days I will pour out my Spirit.
Joe 2:30 "And I will show wonders in the heavens and on the earth, blood and fire and columns of smoke.
Joe 2:31 The sun shall be turned to darkness, and the moon to blood, before the great and awesome day of the
LORD comes.
Joe 2:32 And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls on the name of the LORD shall be saved. For in
Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be those who escape, as the LORD has said, and among the survivors
shall be those whom the LORD calls.
Joe 3:1 "For behold, in those days and at that time, when I restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem,
Joe 3:2 I will gather all the nations and bring them down to the Valley of Jehoshaphat. And I will enter into
judgment with them there, on behalf of my people and my heritage Israel, because they have scattered them
among the nations and have divided up my land,
Joe 3:3 and have cast lots for my people, and have traded a boy for a prostitute, and have sold a girl for wine
and have drunk it.
Joe 3:4 "What are you to me, O Tyre and Sidon, and all the regions of Philistia? Are you paying me back for
something? If you are paying me back, I will return your payment on your own head swiftly and speedily.
Joe 3:5 For you have taken my silver and my gold, and have carried my rich treasures into your temples.
Joe 3:6 You have sold the people of Judah and Jerusalem to the Greeks in order to remove them far from their
own border.
Joe 3:7 Behold, I will stir them up from the place to which you have sold them, and I will return your payment on
your own head.
Joe 3:8 I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the people of Judah, and they will sell them to
the Sabeans, to a nation far away, for the LORD has spoken."
Joe 3:9 Proclaim this among the nations: Consecrate for war; stir up the mighty men. Let all the men of war
draw near; let them come up.
Joe 3:10 Beat your plowshares into swords, and your pruning hooks into spears; let the weak say, "I am a
warrior."
Joe 3:11 Hasten and come, all you surrounding nations, and gather yourselves there. Bring down your warriors,
O LORD.Joe 3:12 Let the nations stir themselves up and come up to the Valley of Jehoshaphat; for there I will sit to judge
all the surrounding nations.
Joe 3:13 Put in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe. Go in, tread, for the winepress is full. The vats overflow, for
their evil is great.
Joe 3:14 Multitudes, multitudes, in the valley of decision! For the day of the LORD is near in the valley of
decision.
Joe 3:15 The sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining.
Joe 3:16 The LORD roars from Zion, and utters his voice from Jerusalem, and the heavens and the earth
quake. But the LORD is a refuge to his people, a stronghold to the people of Israel.
Joe 3:17 "So you shall know that I am the LORD your God, who dwell in Zion, my holy mountain. And
Jerusalem shall be holy, and strangers shall never again pass through it.
Joe 3:18 "And in that day the mountains shall drip sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk, and all the
streambeds of Judah shall flow with water; and a fountain shall come forth from the house of the LORD and
water the Valley of Shittim.
Joe 3:19 "Egypt shall become a desolation and Edom a desolate wilderness, for the violence done to the people
of Judah, because they have shed innocent blood in their land.
Joe 3:20 But Judah shall be inhabited forever, and Jerusalem to all generations.
Joe 3:21 I will avenge their blood, blood I have not avenged, for the LORD dwells in Zion."
Amo 1:1 The words of Amos, who was among the shepherds of Tekoa, which he saw concerning Israel in the
days of Uzziah king of Judah and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel, two years before the
earthquake.
Amo 1:2 And he said: "The LORD roars from Zion and utters his voice from Jerusalem; the pastures of the
shepherds mourn, and the top of Carmel withers."
Amo 1:3 Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Damascus, and for four, I will not revoke the
punishment, because they have threshed Gilead with threshing sledges of iron.
Amo 1:4 So I will send a fire upon the house of Hazael, and it shall devour the strongholds of Ben-hadad.
Amo 1:5 I will break the gate-bar of Damascus, and cut off the inhabitants from the Valley of Aven, and him who
holds the scepter from Beth-eden; and the people of Syria shall go into exile to Kir," says the LORD.
Amo 1:6 Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Gaza, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment,
because they carried into exile a whole people to deliver them up to Edom.
Amo 1:7 So I will send a fire upon the wall of Gaza, and it shall devour her strongholds.
Amo 1:8 I will cut off the inhabitants from Ashdod, and him who holds the scepter from Ashkelon; I will turn my
hand against Ekron, and the remnant of the Philistines shall perish," says the Lord GOD.
Amo 1:9 Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Tyre, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment,
because they delivered up a whole people to Edom, and did not remember the covenant of brotherhood.
Amo 1:10 So I will send a fire upon the wall of Tyre, and it shall devour her strongholds."
Amo 1:11 Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Edom, and for four, I will not revoke the
punishment, because he pursued his brother with the sword and cast off all pity, and his anger tore perpetually,
and he kept his wrath forever.
Amo 1:12 So I will send a fire upon Teman, and it shall devour the strongholds of Bozrah."
Amo 1:13 Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of the Ammonites, and for four, I will not revoke the
punishment, because they have ripped open pregnant women in Gilead, that they might enlarge their border.
Amo 1:14 So I will kindle a fire in the wall of Rabbah, and it shall devour her strongholds, with shouting on the
day of battle, with a tempest in the day of the whirlwind;
Amo 1:15 and their king shall go into exile, he and his princes together," says the LORD.
Amo 2:1 Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Moab, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment,
because he burned to lime the bones of the king of Edom.
Amo 2:2 So I will send a fire upon Moab, and it shall devour the strongholds of Kerioth, and Moab shall die amid
uproar, amid shouting and the sound of the trumpet;
Amo 2:3 I will cut off the ruler from its midst, and will kill all its princes with him," says the LORD.
Amo 2:4 Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Judah, and for four, I will not revoke the
punishment, because they have rejected the law of the LORD, and have not kept his statutes, but their lies have
led them astray, those after which their fathers walked.
Amo 2:5 So I will send a fire upon Judah, and it shall devour the strongholds of Jerusalem."
Amo 2:6 Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Israel, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment,
because they sell the righteous for silver, and the needy for a pair of sandalsAmo 2:7 those who trample the head of the poor into the dust of the earth and turn aside the way of the afflicted;
a man and his father go in to the same girl, so that my holy name is profaned;
Amo 2:8 they lay themselves down beside every altar on garments taken in pledge, and in the house of theirGod they drink the wine of those who have been fined.
Amo 2:9 "Yet it was I who destroyed the Amorite before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars
and who was as strong as the oaks; I destroyed his fruit above and his roots beneath.
Amo 2:10 Also it was I who brought you up out of the land of Egypt and led you forty years in the wilderness, to
possess the land of the Amorite.
Amo 2:11 And I raised up some of your sons for prophets, and some of your young men for Nazirites. Is it not
indeed so, O people of Israel?" declares the LORD.
Amo 2:12 "But you made the Nazirites drink wine, and commanded the prophets, saying, 'You shall not
prophesy.'
Amo 2:13 "Behold, I will press you down in your place, as a cart full of sheaves presses down.
Amo 2:14 Flight shall perish from the swift, and the strong shall not retain his strength, nor shall the mighty save
his life;
Amo 2:15 he who handles the bow shall not stand, and he who is swift of foot shall not save himself, nor shall
he who rides the horse save his life;
Amo 2:16 and he who is stout of heart among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day," declares the LORD.
Amo 3:1 Hear this word that the LORD has spoken against you, O people of Israel, against the whole family that
I brought up out of the land of Egypt:
Amo 3:2 "You only have I known of all the families of the earth; therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities.
Amo 3:3 "Do two walk together, unless they have agreed to meet?
Amo 3:4 Does a lion roar in the forest, when he has no prey? Does a young lion cry out from his den, if he has
taken nothing?
Amo 3:5 Does a bird fall in a snare on the earth, when there is no trap for it? Does a snare spring up from the
ground, when it has taken nothing?
Amo 3:6 Is a trumpet blown in a city, and the people are not afraid? Does disaster come to a city, unless the
LORD has done it?
Amo 3:7 "For the Lord GOD does nothing without revealing his secret to his servants the prophets.
Amo 3:8 The lion has roared; who will not fear? The Lord GOD has spoken; who can but prophesy?"
Amo 3:9 Proclaim to the strongholds in Ashdod and to the strongholds in the land of Egypt, and say, "Assemble
yourselves on the mountains of Samaria, and see the great tumults within her, and the oppressed in her midst."
Amo 3:10 "They do not know how to do right," declares the LORD, "those who store up violence and robbery in
their strongholds."
Amo 3:11 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: "An adversary shall surround the land and bring down your
defenses from you, and your strongholds shall be plundered."
Amo 3:12 Thus says the LORD: "As the shepherd rescues from the mouth of the lion two legs, or a piece of an
ear, so shall the people of Israel who dwell in Samaria be rescued, with the corner of a couch and part of a bed.
Amo 3:13 "Hear, and testify against the house of Jacob," declares the Lord GOD, the God of hosts,
Amo 3:14 "that on the day I punish Israel for his transgressions, I will punish the altars of Bethel, and the horns
of the altar shall be cut off and fall to the ground.
Amo 3:15 I will strike the winter house along with the summer house, and the houses of ivory shall perish, and
the great houses shall come to an end," declares the LORD.
Amo 4:1 "Hear this word, you cows of Bashan, who are on the mountain of Samaria, who oppress the poor, who
crush the needy, who say to your husbands, 'Bring, that we may drink!'
Amo 4:2 The Lord GOD has sworn by his holiness that, behold, the days are coming upon you, when they shall
take you away with hooks, even the last of you with fishhooks.
Amo 4:3 And you shall go out through the breaches, each one straight ahead; and you shall be cast out into
Harmon," declares the LORD.
Amo 4:4 "Come to Bethel, and transgress; to Gilgal, and multiply transgression; bring your sacrifices every
morning, your tithes every three days;
Amo 4:5 offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving of that which is leavened, and proclaim freewill offerings, publish them;
for so you love to do, O people of Israel!" declares the Lord GOD.
Amo 4:6 "I gave you cleanness of teeth in all your cities, and lack of bread in all your places, yet you did not
return to me," declares the LORD.
Amo 4:7 "I also withheld the rain from you when there were yet three months to the harvest; I would send rain
on one city, and send no rain on another city; one field would have rain, and the field on which it did not rain
would wither;
Amo 4:8 so two or three cities would wander to another city to drink water, and would not be satisfied; yet you
did not return to me," declares the LORD.
Amo 4:9 "I struck you with blight and mildew; your many gardens and your vineyards, your fig trees and your
olive trees the locust devoured; yet you did not return to me," declares the LORD.Amo 4:10 "I sent among you a pestilence after the manner of Egypt; I killed your young men with the sword, and
carried away your horses, and I made the stench of your camp go up into your nostrils; yet you did not return to
me," declares the LORD.
Amo 4:11 "I overthrew some of you, as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, and you were as a brand
plucked out of the burning; yet you did not return to me," declares the LORD.
Amo 4:12 "Therefore thus I will do to you, O Israel; because I will do this to you, prepare to meet your God, O
Israel!"
Amo 4:13 For behold, he who forms the mountains and creates the wind, and declares to man what is his
thought, who makes the morning darkness, and treads on the heights of the earth- the LORD, the God of hosts,
is his name!
Amo 5:1 Hear this word that I take up over you in lamentation, O house of Israel:
Amo 5:2 "Fallen, no more to rise, is the virgin Israel; forsaken on her land, with none to raise her up."
Amo 5:3 For thus says the Lord GOD: "The city that went out a thousand shall have a hundred left, and that
which went out a hundred shall have ten left to the house of Israel."
Amo 5:4 For thus says the LORD to the house of Israel: "Seek me and live;
Amo 5:5 but do not seek Bethel, and do not enter into Gilgal or cross over to Beersheba; for Gilgal shall surely
go into exile, and Bethel shall come to nothing."
Amo 5:6 Seek the LORD and live, lest he break out like fire in the house of Joseph, and it devour, with none to
quench it for Bethel,
Amo 5:7 O you who turn justice to wormwood and cast down righteousness to the earth!
Amo 5:8 He who made the Pleiades and Orion, and turns deep darkness into the morning and darkens the day
into night, who calls for the waters of the sea and pours them out on the surface of the earth, the LORD is his
name;
Amo 5:9 who makes destruction flash forth against the strong, so that destruction comes upon the fortress.
Amo 5:10 They hate him who reproves in the gate, and they abhor him who speaks the truth.
Amo 5:11 Therefore because you trample on the poor and you exact taxes of grain from him, you have built
houses of hewn stone, but you shall not dwell in them; you have planted pleasant vineyards, but you shall not
drink their wine.
Amo 5:12 For I know how many are your transgressions and how great are your sins- you who afflict the
righteous, who take a bribe, and turn aside the needy in the gate.
Amo 5:13 Therefore he who is prudent will keep silent in such a time, for it is an evil time.
Amo 5:14 Seek good, and not evil, that you may live; and so the LORD, the God of hosts, will be with you, as
you have said.
Amo 5:15 Hate evil, and love good, and establish justice in the gate; it may be that the LORD, the God of hosts,
will be gracious to the remnant of Joseph.
Amo 5:16 Therefore thus says the LORD, the God of hosts, the Lord: "In all the squares there shall be wailing,
and in all the streets they shall say, 'Alas! Alas!' They shall call the farmers to mourning and to wailing those who
are skilled in lamentation,
Amo 5:17 and in all vineyards there shall be wailing, for I will pass through your midst," says the LORD.
Amo 5:18 Woe to you who desire the day of the LORD! Why would you have the day of the LORD? It is
darkness, and not light,
Amo 5:19 as if a man fled from a lion, and a bear met him, or went into the house and leaned his hand against
the wall, and a serpent bit him.
Amo 5:20 Is not the day of the LORD darkness, and not light, and gloom with no brightness in it?
Amo 5:21 "I hate, I despise your feasts, and I take no delight in your solemn assemblies.
Amo 5:22 Even though you offer me your burnt offerings and grain offerings, I will not accept them; and the
peace offerings of your fattened animals, I will not look upon them.
Amo 5:23 Take away from me the noise of your songs; to the melody of your harps I will not listen.
Amo 5:24 But let justice roll down like waters, and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream.
Amo 5:25 "Did you bring to me sacrifices and offerings during the forty years in the wilderness, O house of
Israel?
Amo 5:26 You shall take up Sikkuth your king, and Kiyyun your star-god- your images that you made for
yourselves,
Amo 5:27 and I will send you into exile beyond Damascus," says the LORD, whose name is the God of hosts.
Amo 6:1 "Woe to those who are at ease in Zion, and to those who feel secure on the mountain of Samaria, the
notable men of the first of the nations, to whom the house of Israel comes!
Amo 6:2 Pass over to Calneh, and see, and from there go to Hamath the great; then go down to Gath of the
Philistines. Are you better than these kingdoms? Or is their territory greater than your territory,
Amo 6:3 O you who put far away the day of disaster and bring near the seat of violence?Amo 6:4 "Woe to those who lie on beds of ivory and stretch themselves out on their couches, and eat lambs
from the flock and calves from the midst of the stall,
Amo 6:5 who sing idle songs to the sound of the harp and like David invent for themselves instruments of music,
Amo 6:6 who drink wine in bowls and anoint themselves with the finest oils, but are not grieved over the ruin of
Joseph!
Amo 6:7 Therefore they shall now be the first of those who go into exile, and the revelry of those who stretch
themselves out shall pass away."
Amo 6:8 The Lord GOD has sworn by himself, declares the LORD, the God of hosts: "I abhor the pride of Jacob
and hate his strongholds, and I will deliver up the city and all that is in it."
Amo 6:9 And if ten men remain in one house, they shall die.
Amo 6:10 And when one's relative, the one who anoints him for burial, shall take him up to bring the bones out
of the house, and shall say to him who is in the innermost parts of the house, "Is there still anyone with you?" he
shall say, "No"; and he shall say, "Silence! We must not mention the name of the LORD."
Amo 6:11 For behold, the LORD commands, and the great house shall be struck down into fragments, and the
little house into bits.
Amo 6:12 Do horses run on rocks? Does one plow there with oxen? But you have turned justice into poison and
the fruit of righteousness into wormwoodAmo 6:13 you who rejoice in Lo-debar, who say, "Have we not by our own strength captured Karnaim for
ourselves?"
Amo 6:14 "For behold, I will raise up against you a nation, O house of Israel," declares the LORD, the God of
hosts; "and they shall oppress you from Lebo-hamath to the Brook of the Arabah."
Amo 7:1 This is what the Lord GOD showed me: behold, he was forming locusts when the latter growth was just
beginning to sprout, and behold, it was the latter growth after the king's mowings.
Amo 7:2 When they had finished eating the grass of the land, I said, "O Lord GOD, please forgive! How can
Jacob stand? He is so small!"
Amo 7:3 The LORD relented concerning this; "It shall not be," said the LORD.
Amo 7:4 This is what the Lord GOD showed me: behold, the Lord GOD was calling for a judgment by fire, and it
devoured the great deep and was eating up the land.
Amo 7:5 Then I said, "O Lord GOD, please cease! How can Jacob stand? He is so small!"
Amo 7:6 The LORD relented concerning this; "This also shall not be," said the Lord GOD.
Amo 7:7 This is what he showed me: behold, the Lord was standing beside a wall built with a plumb line, with a
plumb line in his hand.
Amo 7:8 And the LORD said to me, "Amos, what do you see?" And I said, "A plumb line." Then the Lord said,
"Behold, I am setting a plumb line in the midst of my people Israel; I will never again pass by them;
Amo 7:9 the high places of Isaac shall be made desolate, and the sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste, and I
will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword."
Amo 7:10 Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, "Amos has conspired
against you in the midst of the house of Israel. The land is not able to bear all his words.
Amo 7:11 For thus Amos has said, "' Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel must go into exile away from
his land.'"
Amo 7:12 And Amaziah said to Amos, "O seer, go, flee away to the land of Judah, and eat bread there, and
prophesy there,
Amo 7:13 but never again prophesy at Bethel, for it is the king's sanctuary, and it is a temple of the kingdom."
Amo 7:14 Then Amos answered and said to Amaziah, "I was no prophet, nor a prophet's son, but I was a
herdsman and a dresser of sycamore figs.
Amo 7:15 But the LORD took me from following the flock, and the LORD said to me, 'Go, prophesy to my
people Israel.'
Amo 7:16 Now therefore hear the word of the LORD. "You say, 'Do not prophesy against Israel, and do not
preach against the house of Isaac.'
Amo 7:17 Therefore thus says the LORD: "' Your wife shall be a prostitute in the city, and your sons and your
daughters shall fall by the sword, and your land shall be divided up with a measuring line; you yourself shall die
in an unclean land, and Israel shall surely go into exile away from its land.'"
Amo 8:1 This is what the Lord GOD showed me: behold, a basket of summer fruit.
Amo 8:2 And he said, "Amos, what do you see?" And I said, "A basket of summer fruit." Then the LORD said to
me, "The end has come upon my people Israel; I will never again pass by them.
Amo 8:3 The songs of the temple shall become wailings in that day," declares the Lord GOD. "So many dead
bodies!" "They are thrown everywhere!" "Silence!"
Amo 8:4 Hear this, you who trample on the needy and bring the poor of the land to an end,
Amo 8:5 saying, "When will the new moon be over, that we may sell grain? And the Sabbath, that we may offerwheat for sale, that we may make the ephah small and the shekel great and deal deceitfully with false balances,
Amo 8:6 that we may buy the poor for silver and the needy for a pair of sandals and sell the chaff of the wheat?"
Amo 8:7 The LORD has sworn by the pride of Jacob: "Surely I will never forget any of their deeds.
Amo 8:8 Shall not the land tremble on this account, and everyone mourn who dwells in it, and all of it rise like
the Nile, and be tossed about and sink again, like the Nile of Egypt?"
Amo 8:9 "And on that day," declares the Lord GOD, "I will make the sun go down at noon and darken the earth
in broad daylight.
Amo 8:10 I will turn your feasts into mourning and all your songs into lamentation; I will bring sackcloth on every
waist and baldness on every head; I will make it like the mourning for an only son and the end of it like a bitter
day.
Amo 8:11 "Behold, the days are coming," declares the Lord GOD, "when I will send a famine on the land- not a
famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the LORD.
Amo 8:12 They shall wander from sea to sea, and from north to east; they shall run to and fro, to seek the word
of the LORD, but they shall not find it.
Amo 8:13 "In that day the lovely virgins and the young men shall faint for thirst.
Amo 8:14 Those who swear by the Guilt of Samaria, and say, 'As your god lives, O Dan,' and, 'As the Way of
Beersheba lives,' they shall fall, and never rise again."
Amo 9:1 I saw the LORD standing beside the altar, and he said: "Strike the capitals until the thresholds shake,
and shatter them on the heads of all the people; and those who are left of them I will kill with the sword; not one
of them shall flee away; not one of them shall escape.
Amo 9:2 "If they dig into Sheol, from there shall my hand take them; if they climb up to heaven, from there I will
bring them down.
Amo 9:3 If they hide themselves on the top of Carmel, from there I will search them out and take them; and if
they hide from my sight at the bottom of the sea, there I will command the serpent, and it shall bite them.
Amo 9:4 And if they go into captivity before their enemies, there I will command the sword, and it shall kill them;
and I will fix my eyes upon them for evil and not for good."
Amo 9:5 The Lord GOD of hosts, he who touches the earth and it melts, and all who dwell in it mourn, and all of
it rises like the Nile, and sinks again, like the Nile of Egypt;
Amo 9:6 who builds his upper chambers in the heavens and founds his vault upon the earth; who calls for the
waters of the sea and pours them out upon the surface of the earth- the LORD is his name.
Amo 9:7 "Are you not like the Cushites to me, O people of Israel?" declares the LORD. "Did I not bring up Israel
from the land of Egypt, and the Philistines from Caphtor and the Syrians from Kir?
Amo 9:8 Behold, the eyes of the Lord GOD are upon the sinful kingdom, and I will destroy it from the surface of
the ground, except that I will not utterly destroy the house of Jacob," declares the LORD.
Amo 9:9 "For behold, I will command, and shake the house of Israel among all the nations as one shakes with a
sieve, but no pebble shall fall to the earth.
Amo 9:10 All the sinners of my people shall die by the sword, who say, 'Disaster shall not overtake or meet us.'
Amo 9:11 "In that day I will raise up the booth of David that is fallen and repair its breaches, and raise up its
ruins and rebuild it as in the days of old,
Amo 9:12 that they may possess the remnant of Edom and all the nations who are called by my name,"
declares the LORD who does this.
Amo 9:13 "Behold, the days are coming," declares the LORD, "when the plowman shall overtake the reaper and
the treader of grapes him who sows the seed; the mountains shall drip sweet wine, and all the hills shall flow
with it.
Amo 9:14 I will restore the fortunes of my people Israel, and they shall rebuild the ruined cities and inhabit them;
they shall plant vineyards and drink their wine, and they shall make gardens and eat their fruit.
Amo 9:15 I will plant them on their land, and they shall never again be uprooted out of the land that I have given
them," says the LORD your God.
Oba 1:1 The vision of Obadiah. Thus says the Lord GOD concerning Edom: We have heard a report from the
LORD, and a messenger has been sent among the nations: "Rise up! Let us rise against her for battle!"
Oba 1:2 Behold, I will make you small among the nations; you shall be utterly despised.
Oba 1:3 The pride of your heart has deceived you, you who live in the clefts of the rock, in your lofty dwelling,
who say in your heart, "Who will bring me down to the ground?"
Oba 1:4 Though you soar aloft like the eagle, though your nest is set among the stars, from there I will bring you
down, declares the LORD.
Oba 1:5 If thieves came to you, if plunderers came by night- how you have been destroyed!- would they not
steal only enough for themselves? If grape gatherers came to you, would they not leave gleanings?
Oba 1:6 How Esau has been pillaged, his treasures sought out!
Oba 1:7 All your allies have driven you to your border; those at peace with you have deceived you; they haveprevailed against you; those who eat your bread have set a trap beneath you- you have no understanding.
Oba 1:8 Will I not on that day, declares the LORD, destroy the wise men out of Edom, and understanding out of
Mount Esau?
Oba 1:9 And your mighty men shall be dismayed, O Teman, so that every man from Mount Esau will be cut off
by slaughter.
Oba 1:10 Because of the violence done to your brother Jacob, shame shall cover you, and you shall be cut off
forever.
Oba 1:11 On the day that you stood aloof, on the day that strangers carried off his wealth and foreigners
entered his gates and cast lots for Jerusalem, you were like one of them.
Oba 1:12 But do not gloat over the day of your brother in the day of his misfortune; do not rejoice over the
people of Judah in the day of their ruin; do not boast in the day of distress.
Oba 1:13 Do not enter the gate of my people in the day of their calamity; do not gloat over his disaster in the
day of his calamity; do not loot his wealth in the day of his calamity.
Oba 1:14 Do not stand at the crossroads to cut off his fugitives; do not hand over his survivors in the day of
distress.
Oba 1:15 For the day of the LORD is near upon all the nations. As you have done, it shall be done to you; your
deeds shall return on your own head.
Oba 1:16 For as you have drunk on my holy mountain, so all the nations shall drink continually; they shall drink
and swallow, and shall be as though they had never been.
Oba 1:17 But in Mount Zion there shall be those who escape, and it shall be holy, and the house of Jacob shall
possess their own possessions.
Oba 1:18 The house of Jacob shall be a fire, and the house of Joseph a flame, and the house of Esau stubble;
they shall burn them and consume them, and there shall be no survivor for the house of Esau, for the LORD has
spoken.
Oba 1:19 Those of the Negeb shall possess Mount Esau, and those of the Shephelah shall possess the land of
the Philistines; they shall possess the land of Ephraim and the land of Samaria, and Benjamin shall possess
Gilead.
Oba 1:20 The exiles of this host of the people of Israel shall possess the land of the Canaanites as far as
Zarephath, and the exiles of Jerusalem who are in Sepharad shall possess the cities of the Negeb.
Oba 1:21 Saviors shall go up to Mount Zion to rule Mount Esau, and the kingdom shall be the LORD's.
Jon 1:1 Now the word of the LORD came to Jonah the son of Amittai, saying,
Jon 1:2 "Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it, for their evil has come up before me."
Jon 1:3 But Jonah rose to flee to Tarshish from the presence of the LORD. He went down to Joppa and found a
ship going to Tarshish. So he paid the fare and went on board, to go with them to Tarshish, away from the
presence of the LORD.
Jon 1:4 But the LORD hurled a great wind upon the sea, and there was a mighty tempest on the sea, so that the
ship threatened to break up.
Jon 1:5 Then the mariners were afraid, and each cried out to his god. And they hurled the cargo that was in the
ship into the sea to lighten it for them. But Jonah had gone down into the inner part of the ship and had lain down
and was fast asleep.
Jon 1:6 So the captain came and said to him, "What do you mean, you sleeper? Arise, call out to your god!
Perhaps the god will give a thought to us, that we may not perish."
Jon 1:7 And they said to one another, "Come, let us cast lots, that we may know on whose account this evil has
come upon us." So they cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah.
Jon 1:8 Then they said to him, "Tell us on whose account this evil has come upon us. What is your occupation?
And where do you come from? What is your country? And of what people are you?"
Jon 1:9 And he said to them, "I am a Hebrew, and I fear the LORD, the God of heaven, who made the sea and
the dry land."
Jon 1:10 Then the men were exceedingly afraid and said to him, "What is this that you have done!" For the men
knew that he was fleeing from the presence of the LORD, because he had told them.
Jon 1:11 Then they said to him, "What shall we do to you, that the sea may quiet down for us?" For the sea
grew more and more tempestuous.
Jon 1:12 He said to them, "Pick me up and hurl me into the sea; then the sea will quiet down for you, for I know
it is because of me that this great tempest has come upon you."
Jon 1:13 Nevertheless, the men rowed hard to get back to dry land, but they could not, for the sea grew more
and more tempestuous against them.
Jon 1:14 Therefore they called out to the LORD, "O LORD, let us not perish for this man's life, and lay not on us
innocent blood, for you, O LORD, have done as it pleased you."
Jon 1:15 So they picked up Jonah and hurled him into the sea, and the sea ceased from its raging.Jon 1:16 Then the men feared the LORD exceedingly, and they offered a sacrifice to the LORD and made
vows.
Jon 1:17 And the LORD appointed a great fish to swallow up Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three
days and three nights.
Jon 2:1 Then Jonah prayed to the LORD his God from the belly of the fish,
Jon 2:2 saying, "I called out to the LORD, out of my distress, and he answered me; out of the belly of Sheol I
cried, and you heard my voice.
Jon 2:3 For you cast me into the deep, into the heart of the seas, and the flood surrounded me; all your waves
and your billows passed over me.
Jon 2:4 Then I said, 'I am driven away from your sight; Yet I shall again look upon your holy temple.'
Jon 2:5 The waters closed in over me to take my life; the deep surrounded me; weeds were wrapped about my
head
Jon 2:6 at the roots of the mountains. I went down to the land whose bars closed upon me forever; yet you
brought up my life from the pit, O LORD my God.
Jon 2:7 When my life was fainting away, I remembered the LORD, and my prayer came to you, into your holy
temple.
Jon 2:8 Those who pay regard to vain idols forsake their hope of steadfast love.
Jon 2:9 But I with the voice of thanksgiving will sacrifice to you; what I have vowed I will pay. Salvation belongs
to the LORD!"
Jon 2:10 And the LORD spoke to the fish, and it vomited Jonah out upon the dry land.
Jon 3:1 Then the word of the LORD came to Jonah the second time, saying,
Jon 3:2 "Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it the message that I tell you."
Jon 3:3 So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh, according to the word of the LORD. Now Nineveh was an
exceedingly great city, three days' journey in breadth.
Jon 3:4 Jonah began to go into the city, going a day's journey. And he called out, "Yet forty days, and Nineveh
shall be overthrown!"
Jon 3:5 And the people of Nineveh believed God. They called for a fast and put on sackcloth, from the greatest
of them to the least of them.
Jon 3:6 The word reached the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne, removed his robe, covered
himself with sackcloth, and sat in ashes.
Jon 3:7 And he issued a proclamation and published through Nineveh, "By the decree of the king and his
nobles: Let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock, taste anything. Let them not feed or drink water,
Jon 3:8 but let man and beast be covered with sackcloth, and let them call out mightily to God. Let everyone
turn from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hands.
Jon 3:9 Who knows? God may turn and relent and turn from his fierce anger, so that we may not perish."
Jon 3:10 When God saw what they did, how they turned from their evil way, God relented of the disaster that he
had said he would do to them, and he did not do it.
Jon 4:1 But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was angry.
Jon 4:2 And he prayed to the LORD and said, "O LORD, is not this what I said when I was yet in my country?
That is why I made haste to flee to Tarshish; for I knew that you are a gracious God and merciful, slow to anger
and abounding in steadfast love, and relenting from disaster.
Jon 4:3 Therefore now, O LORD, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live."
Jon 4:4 And the LORD said, "Do you do well to be angry?"
Jon 4:5 Jonah went out of the city and sat to the east of the city and made a booth for himself there. He sat
under it in the shade, till he should see what would become of the city.
Jon 4:6 Now the LORD God appointed a plant and made it come up over Jonah, that it might be a shade over
his head, to save him from his discomfort. So Jonah was exceedingly glad because of the plant.
Jon 4:7 But when dawn came up the next day, God appointed a worm that attacked the plant, so that it
withered.
Jon 4:8 When the sun rose, God appointed a scorching east wind, and the sun beat down on the head of Jonah
so that he was faint. And he asked that he might die and said, "It is better for me to die than to live."
Jon 4:9 But God said to Jonah, "Do you do well to be angry for the plant?" And he said, "Yes, I do well to be
angry, angry enough to die."
Jon 4:10 And the LORD said, "You pity the plant, for which you did not labor, nor did you make it grow, which
came into being in a night and perished in a night.
Jon 4:11 And should not I pity Nineveh, that great city, in which there are more than 120,000 persons who do
not know their right hand from their left, and also much cattle?"
Mic 1:1 The word of the LORD that came to Micah of Moresheth in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah,
kings of Judah, which he saw concerning Samaria and Jerusalem.Mic 1:2 Hear, you peoples, all of you; pay attention, O earth, and all that is in it, and let the Lord GOD be a
witness against you, the Lord from his holy temple.
Mic 1:3 For behold, the LORD is coming out of his place, and will come down and tread upon the high places of
the earth.
Mic 1:4 And the mountains will melt under him, and the valleys will split open, like wax before the fire, like
waters poured down a steep place.
Mic 1:5 All this is for the transgression of Jacob and for the sins of the house of Israel. What is the transgression
of Jacob? Is it not Samaria? And what is the high place of Judah? Is it not Jerusalem?
Mic 1:6 Therefore I will make Samaria a heap in the open country, a place for planting vineyards, and I will pour
down her stones into the valley and uncover her foundations.
Mic 1:7 All her carved images shall be beaten to pieces, all her wages shall be burned with fire, and all her idols
I will lay waste, for from the fee of a prostitute she gathered them, and to the fee of a prostitute they shall return.
Mic 1:8 For this I will lament and wail; I will go stripped and naked; I will make lamentation like the jackals, and
mourning like the ostriches.
Mic 1:9 For her wound is incurable, and it has come to Judah; it has reached to the gate of my people, to
Jerusalem.
Mic 1:10 Tell it not in Gath; weep not at all; in Beth-le-aphrah roll yourselves in the dust.
Mic 1:11 Pass on your way, inhabitants of Shaphir, in nakedness and shame; the inhabitants of Zaanan do not
come out; the lamentation of Beth-ezel shall take away from you its standing place.
Mic 1:12 For the inhabitants of Maroth wait anxiously for good, because disaster has come down from the
LORD to the gate of Jerusalem.
Mic 1:13 Harness the steeds to the chariots, inhabitants of Lachish; it was the beginning of sin to the daughter
of Zion, for in you were found the transgressions of Israel.
Mic 1:14 Therefore you shall give parting gifts to Moresheth-gath; the houses of Achzib shall be a deceitful thing
to the kings of Israel.
Mic 1:15 I will again bring a conqueror to you, inhabitants of Mareshah; the glory of Israel shall come to
Adullam.
Mic 1:16 Make yourselves bald and cut off your hair, for the children of your delight; make yourselves as bald as
the eagle, for they shall go from you into exile.
Mic 2:1 Woe to those who devise wickedness and work evil on their beds! When the morning dawns, they
perform it, because it is in the power of their hand.
Mic 2:2 They covet fields and seize them, and houses, and take them away; they oppress a man and his house,
a man and his inheritance.
Mic 2:3 Therefore thus says the LORD: behold, against this family I am devising disaster, from which you
cannot remove your necks, and you shall not walk haughtily, for it will be a time of disaster.
Mic 2:4 In that day they shall take up a taunt song against you and moan bitterly, and say, "We are utterly
ruined; he changes the portion of my people; how he removes it from me! To an apostate he allots our fields."
Mic 2:5 Therefore you will have none to cast the line by lot in the assembly of the LORD.
Mic 2:6 "Do not preach"- thus they preach- "one should not preach of such things; disgrace will not overtake us."
Mic 2:7 Should this be said, O house of Jacob? Has the LORD grown impatient? Are these his deeds? Do not
my words do good to him who walks uprightly?
Mic 2:8 But lately my people have risen up as an enemy; you strip the rich robe from those who pass by
trustingly with no thought of war.
Mic 2:9 The women of my people you drive out from their delightful houses; from their young children you take
away my splendor forever.
Mic 2:10 Arise and go, for this is no place to rest, because of uncleanness that destroys with a grievous
destruction.
Mic 2:11 If a man should go about and utter wind and lies, saying, "I will preach to you of wine and strong drink,"
he would be the preacher for this people!
Mic 2:12 I will surely assemble all of you, O Jacob; I will gather the remnant of Israel; I will set them together like
sheep in a fold, like a flock in its pasture, a noisy multitude of men.
Mic 2:13 He who opens the breach goes up before them; they break through and pass the gate, going out by it.
Their king passes on before them, the LORD at their head.
Mic 3:1 And I said:Hear, you heads of Jacob and rulers of the house of Israel! Is it not for you to know justice?-
Mic 3:2 you who hate the good and love the evil, who tear the skin from off my people and their flesh from off
their bones,
Mic 3:3 who eat the flesh of my people, and flay their skin from off them, and break their bones in pieces and
chop them up like meat in a pot, like flesh in a cauldron.
Mic 3:4 Then they will cry to the LORD, but he will not answer them; he will hide his face from them at that time,because they have made their deeds evil.
Mic 3:5 Thus says the LORD concerning the prophets who lead my people astray, who cry "Peace" when they
have something to eat, but declare war against him who puts nothing into their mouths.
Mic 3:6 Therefore it shall be night to you, without vision, and darkness to you, without divination. The sun shall
go down on the prophets, and the day shall be black over them;
Mic 3:7 the seers shall be disgraced, and the diviners put to shame; they shall all cover their lips, for there is no
answer from God.
Mic 3:8 But as for me, I am filled with power, with the Spirit of the LORD, and with justice and might, to declare
to Jacob his transgression and to Israel his sin.
Mic 3:9 Hear this, you heads of the house of Jacob and rulers of the house of Israel, who detest justice and
make crooked all that is straight,
Mic 3:10 who build Zion with blood and Jerusalem with iniquity.
Mic 3:11 Its heads give judgment for a bribe; its priests teach for a price; its prophets practice divination for
money; yet they lean on the LORD and say, "Is not the LORD in the midst of us? No disaster shall come upon
us."
Mic 3:12 Therefore because of you Zion shall be plowed as a field; Jerusalem shall become a heap of ruins, and
the mountain of the house a wooded height.
Mic 4:1 It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the LORD shall be established
as the highest of the mountains, and it shall be lifted up above the hills; and peoples shall flow to it,
Mic 4:2 and many nations shall come, and say: "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the LORD, to the house
of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways and that we may walk in his paths." For out of Zion shall go
forth the law, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.
Mic 4:3 He shall judge between many peoples, and shall decide for strong nations afar off; and they shall beat
their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation,
neither shall they learn war anymore;
Mic 4:4 but they shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree, and no one shall make them afraid, for
the mouth of the LORD of hosts has spoken.
Mic 4:5 For all the peoples walk each in the name of its god, but we will walk in the name of the LORD our God
forever and ever.
Mic 4:6 In that day, declares the LORD, I will assemble the lame and gather those who have been driven away
and those whom I have afflicted;
Mic 4:7 and the lame I will make the remnant, and those who were cast off, a strong nation; and the LORD will
reign over them in Mount Zion from this time forth and forevermore.
Mic 4:8 And you, O tower of the flock, hill of the daughter of Zion, to you shall it come, the former dominion shall
come, kingship for the daughter of Jerusalem.
Mic 4:9 Now why do you cry aloud? Is there no king in you? Has your counselor perished, that pain seized you
like a woman in labor?
Mic 4:10 Writhe and groan, O daughter of Zion, like a woman in labor, for now you shall go out from the city and
dwell in the open country; you shall go to Babylon. There you shall be rescued; there the LORD will redeem you
from the hand of your enemies.
Mic 4:11 Now many nations are assembled against you, saying, "Let her be defiled, and let our eyes gaze upon
Zion."
Mic 4:12 But they do not know the thoughts of the LORD; they do not understand his plan, that he has gathered
them as sheaves to the threshing floor.
Mic 4:13 Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion, for I will make your horn iron, and I will make your hoofs bronze;
you shall beat in pieces many peoples; and shall devote their gain to the LORD, their wealth to the Lord of the
whole earth.
Mic 5:1 Now muster your troops, O daughter of troops; siege is laid against us; with a rod they strike the judge
of Israel on the cheek.
Mic 5:2 But you, O Bethlehem Ephrathah, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you shall
come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose origin is from of old, from ancient days.
Mic 5:3 Therefore he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth; then the rest of
his brothers shall return to the people of Israel.
Mic 5:4 And he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the LORD, in the majesty of the name of the
LORD his God. And they shall dwell secure, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth.
Mic 5:5 And he shall be their peace. When the Assyrian comes into our land and treads in our palaces, then we
will raise against him seven shepherds and eight princes of men;
Mic 5:6 they shall shepherd the land of Assyria with the sword, and the land of Nimrod at its entrances; and he
shall deliver us from the Assyrian when he comes into our land and treads within our border.Mic 5:7 Then the remnant of Jacob shall be in the midst of many peoples like dew from the LORD, like showers
on the grass, which delay not for a man nor wait for the children of man.
Mic 5:8 And the remnant of Jacob shall be among the nations, in the midst of many peoples, like a lion among
the beasts of the forest, like a young lion among the flocks of sheep, which, when it goes through, treads down
and tears in pieces, and there is none to deliver.
Mic 5:9 Your hand shall be lifted up over your adversaries, and all your enemies shall be cut off.
Mic 5:10 And in that day, declares the LORD, I will cut off your horses from among you and will destroy your
chariots;
Mic 5:11 and I will cut off the cities of your land and throw down all your strongholds;
Mic 5:12 and I will cut off sorceries from your hand, and you shall have no more tellers of fortunes;
Mic 5:13 and I will cut off your carved images and your pillars from among you, and you shall bow down no
more to the work of your hands;
Mic 5:14 and I will root out your Asherah images from among you and destroy your cities.
Mic 5:15 And in anger and wrath I will execute vengeance on the nations that did not obey.
Mic 6:1 Hear what the LORD says:Arise, plead your case before the mountains, and let the hills hear your voice.
Mic 6:2 Hear, you mountains, the indictment of the LORD, and you enduring foundations of the earth, for the
LORD has an indictment against his people, and he will contend with Israel.
Mic 6:3 "O my people, what have I done to you? How have I wearied you? Answer me!
Mic 6:4 For I brought you up from the land of Egypt and redeemed you from the house of slavery, and I sent
before you Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.
Mic 6:5 O my people, remember what Balak king of Moab devised, and what Balaam the son of Beor answered
him, and what happened from Shittim to Gilgal, that you may know the saving acts of the LORD."
Mic 6:6 "With what shall I come before the LORD, and bow myself before God on high? Shall I come before him
with burnt offerings, with calves a year old?
Mic 6:7 Will the LORD be pleased with thousands of rams, with ten thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my
firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?"
Mic 6:8 He has told you, O man, what is good; and what does the LORD require of you but to do justice, and to
love kindness, and to walk humbly with your God?
Mic 6:9 The voice of the LORD cries to the city- and it is sound wisdom to fear your name: "Hear of the rod and
of him who appointed it!
Mic 6:10 Can I forget any longer the treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and the scant measure
that is accursed?
Mic 6:11 Shall I acquit the man with wicked scales and with a bag of deceitful weights?
Mic 6:12 Your rich men are full of violence; your inhabitants speak lies, and their tongue is deceitful in their
mouth.
Mic 6:13 Therefore I strike you with a grievous blow, making you desolate because of your sins.
Mic 6:14 You shall eat, but not be satisfied, and there shall be hunger within you; you shall put away, but not
preserve, and what you preserve I will give to the sword.
Mic 6:15 You shall sow, but not reap; you shall tread olives, but not anoint yourselves with oil; you shall tread
grapes, but not drink wine.
Mic 6:16 For you have kept the statutes of Omri, and all the works of the house of Ahab; and you have walked
in their counsels, that I may make you a desolation, and your inhabitants a hissing; so you shall bear the scorn of
my people."
Mic 7:1 Woe is me! For I have become as when the summer fruit has been gathered, as when the grapes have
been gleaned: there is no cluster to eat, no first-ripe fig that my soul desires.
Mic 7:2 The godly has perished from the earth, and there is no one upright among mankind; they all lie in wait
for blood, and each hunts the other with a net.
Mic 7:3 Their hands are on what is evil, to do it well; the prince and the judge ask for a bribe, and the great man
utters the evil desire of his soul; thus they weave it together.
Mic 7:4 The best of them is like a brier, the most upright of them a thorn hedge. The day of your watchmen, of
your punishment, has come; now their confusion is at hand.
Mic 7:5 Put no trust in a neighbor; have no confidence in a friend; guard the doors of your mouth from her who
lies in your arms;
Mic 7:6 for the son treats the father with contempt, the daughter rises up against her mother, the daughter-inlaw against her mother-in-law; a man's enemies are the men of his own house.
Mic 7:7 But as for me, I will look to the LORD; I will wait for the God of my salvation; my God will hear me.
Mic 7:8 Rejoice not over me, O my enemy; when I fall, I shall rise; when I sit in darkness, the LORD will be a
light to me.
Mic 7:9 I will bear the indignation of the LORD because I have sinned against him, until he pleads my cause andexecutes judgment for me. He will bring me out to the light; I shall look upon his vindication.
Mic 7:10 Then my enemy will see, and shame will cover her who said to me, "Where is the LORD your God?"
My eyes will look upon her; now she will be trampled down like the mire of the streets.
Mic 7:11 A day for the building of your walls! In that day the boundary shall be far extended.
Mic 7:12 In that day they will come to you, from Assyria and the cities of Egypt, and from Egypt to the River,
from sea to sea and from mountain to mountain.
Mic 7:13 But the earth will be desolate because of its inhabitants, for the fruit of their deeds.
Mic 7:14 Shepherd your people with your staff, the flock of your inheritance, who dwell alone in a forest in the
midst of a garden land; let them graze in Bashan and Gilead as in the days of old.
Mic 7:15 As in the days when you came out of the land of Egypt, I will show them marvelous things.
Mic 7:16 The nations shall see and be ashamed of all their might; they shall lay their hands on their mouths;
their ears shall be deaf;
Mic 7:17 they shall lick the dust like a serpent, like the crawling things of the earth; they shall come trembling out
of their strongholds; they shall turn in dread to the LORD our God, and they shall be in fear of you.
Mic 7:18 Who is a God like you, pardoning iniquity and passing over transgression for the remnant of his
inheritance? He does not retain his anger forever, because he delights in steadfast love.
Mic 7:19 He will again have compassion on us; he will tread our iniquities under foot. You will cast all our sins
into the depths of the sea.
Mic 7:20 You will show faithfulness to Jacob and steadfast love to Abraham, as you have sworn to our fathers
from the days of old.
Nah 1:1 An oracle concerning Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum of Elkosh.
Nah 1:2 The LORD is a jealous and avenging God; the LORD is avenging and wrathful; the LORD takes
vengeance on his adversaries and keeps wrath for his enemies.
Nah 1:3 The LORD is slow to anger and great in power, and the LORD will by no means clear the guilty. His
way is in whirlwind and storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet.
Nah 1:4 He rebukes the sea and makes it dry; he dries up all the rivers; Bashan and Carmel wither; the bloom
of Lebanon withers.
Nah 1:5 The mountains quake before him; the hills melt; the earth heaves before him, the world and all who
dwell in it.
Nah 1:6 Who can stand before his indignation? Who can endure the heat of his anger? His wrath is poured out
like fire, and the rocks are broken into pieces by him.
Nah 1:7 The LORD is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble; he knows those who take refuge in him.
Nah 1:8 But with an overflowing flood he will make a complete end of the adversaries, and will pursue his
enemies into darkness.
Nah 1:9 What do you plot against the LORD? He will make a complete end; trouble will not rise up a second
time.
Nah 1:10 For they are like entangled thorns, like drunkards as they drink; they are consumed like stubble fully
dried.
Nah 1:11 From you came one who plotted evil against the LORD, a worthless counselor.
Nah 1:12 Thus says the LORD, "Though they are at full strength and many, they will be cut down and pass
away. Though I have afflicted you, I will afflict you no more.
Nah 1:13 And now I will break his yoke from off you and will burst your bonds apart."
Nah 1:14 The LORD has given commandment about you: "No more shall your name be perpetuated; from the
house of your gods I will cut off the carved image and the metal image. I will make your grave, for you are vile."
Nah 1:15 Behold, upon the mountains, the feet of him who brings good news, who publishes peace! Keep your
feasts, O Judah; fulfill your vows, for never again shall the worthless pass through you; he is utterly cut off.
Nah 2:1 The scatterer has come up against you. Man the ramparts; watch the road; dress for battle; collect all
your strength.
Nah 2:2 For the LORD is restoring the majesty of Jacob as the majesty of Israel, for plunderers have plundered
them and ruined their branches.
Nah 2:3 The shield of his mighty men is red; his soldiers are clothed in scarlet. The chariots come with flashing
metal on the day he musters them; the cypress spears are brandished.
Nah 2:4 The chariots race madly through the streets; they rush to and fro through the squares; they gleam like
torches; they dart like lightning.
Nah 2:5 He remembers his officers; they stumble as they go, they hasten to the wall; the siege tower is set up.
Nah 2:6 The river gates are opened; the palace melts away;
Nah 2:7 its mistress is stripped; she is carried off, her slave girls lamenting, moaning like doves and beating
their breasts.
Nah 2:8 Nineveh is like a pool whose waters run away. "Halt! Halt!" they cry, but none turns back.Nah 2:9 Plunder the silver, plunder the gold! There is no end of the treasure or of the wealth of all precious
things.
Nah 2:10 Desolate! Desolation and ruin! Hearts melt and knees tremble; anguish is in all loins; all faces grow
pale!
Nah 2:11 Where is the lions' den, the feeding place of the young lions, where the lion and lioness went, where
his cubs were, with none to disturb?
Nah 2:12 The lion tore enough for his cubs and strangled prey for his lionesses; he filled his caves with prey and
his dens with torn flesh.
Nah 2:13 Behold, I am against you, declares the LORD of hosts, and I will burn your chariots in smoke, and the
sword shall devour your young lions. I will cut off your prey from the earth, and the voice of your messengers
shall no longer be heard.
Nah 3:1 Woe to the bloody city,all full of lies and plunder- no end to the prey!
Nah 3:2 The crack of the whip, and rumble of the wheel, galloping horse and bounding chariot!
Nah 3:3 Horsemen charging, flashing sword and glittering spear, hosts of slain, heaps of corpses, dead bodies
without end- they stumble over the bodies!
Nah 3:4 And all for the countless whorings of the prostitute, graceful and of deadly charms, who betrays nations
with her whorings, and peoples with her charms.
Nah 3:5 Behold, I am against you, declares the LORD of hosts, and will lift up your skirts over your face; and I
will make nations look at your nakedness and kingdoms at your shame.
Nah 3:6 I will throw filth at you and treat you with contempt and make you a spectacle.
Nah 3:7 And all who look at you will shrink from you and say, Wasted is Nineveh; who will grieve for her? Where
shall I seek comforters for you?
Nah 3:8 Are you better than Thebes that sat by the Nile, with water around her, her rampart a sea, and water
her wall?
Nah 3:9 Cush was her strength; Egypt too, and that without limit; Put and the Libyans were her helpers.
Nah 3:10 Yet she became an exile; she went into captivity; her infants were dashed in pieces at the head of
every street; for her honored men lots were cast, and all her great men were bound in chains.
Nah 3:11 You also will be drunken; you will go into hiding; you will seek a refuge from the enemy.
Nah 3:12 All your fortresses are like fig trees with first-ripe figs- if shaken they fall into the mouth of the eater.
Nah 3:13 Behold, your troops are women in your midst. The gates of your land are wide open to your enemies;
fire has devoured your bars.
Nah 3:14 Draw water for the siege; strengthen your forts; go into the clay; tread the mortar; take hold of the
brick mold!
Nah 3:15 There will the fire devour you; the sword will cut you off. It will devour you like the locust. Multiply
yourselves like the locust; multiply like the grasshopper!
Nah 3:16 You increased your merchants more than the stars of the heavens. The locust spreads its wings and
flies away.
Nah 3:17 Your princes are like grasshoppers, your scribes like clouds of locusts settling on the fences in a day
of cold- when the sun rises, they fly away; no one knows where they are.
Nah 3:18 Your shepherds are asleep, O king of Assyria; your nobles slumber. Your people are scattered on the
mountains with none to gather them.
Nah 3:19 There is no easing your hurt; your wound is grievous. All who hear the news about you clap their
hands over you. For upon whom has not come your unceasing evil?
Hab 1:1 The oracle that Habakkuk the prophet saw.
Hab 1:2 O LORD, how long shall I cry for help, and you will not hear? Or cry to you "Violence!" and you will not
save?
Hab 1:3 Why do you make me see iniquity, and why do you idly look at wrong? Destruction and violence are
before me; strife and contention arise.
Hab 1:4 So the law is paralyzed, and justice never goes forth. For the wicked surround the righteous; so justice
goes forth perverted.
Hab 1:5 "Look among the nations, and see; wonder and be astounded. For I am doing a work in your days that
you would not believe if told.
Hab 1:6 For behold, I am raising up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation, who march through the breadth
of the earth, to seize dwellings not their own.
Hab 1:7 They are dreaded and fearsome; their justice and dignity go forth from themselves.
Hab 1:8 Their horses are swifter than leopards, more fierce than the evening wolves; their horsemen press
proudly on. Their horsemen come from afar; they fly like an eagle swift to devour.
Hab 1:9 They all come for violence, all their faces forward. They gather captives like sand.
Hab 1:10 At kings they scoff, and at rulers they laugh. They laugh at every fortress, for they pile up earth andtake it.
Hab 1:11 Then they sweep by like the wind and go on, guilty men, whose own might is their god!"
Hab 1:12 Are you not from everlasting, O LORD my God, my Holy One? We shall not die. O LORD, you have
ordained them as a judgment, and you, O Rock, have established them for reproof.
Hab 1:13 You who are of purer eyes than to see evil and cannot look at wrong, why do you idly look at traitors
and are silent when the wicked swallows up the man more righteous than he?
Hab 1:14 You make mankind like the fish of the sea, like crawling things that have no ruler.
Hab 1:15 He brings all of them up with a hook; he drags them out with his net; he gathers them in his dragnet;
so he rejoices and is glad.
Hab 1:16 Therefore he sacrifices to his net and makes offerings to his dragnet; for by them he lives in luxury,
and his food is rich.
Hab 1:17 Is he then to keep on emptying his net and mercilessly killing nations forever?
Hab 2:1 I will take my stand at my watchpost and station myself on the tower, and look out to see what he will
say to me, and what I will answer concerning my complaint.
Hab 2:2 And the LORD answered me: "Write the vision; make it plain on tablets, so he may run who reads it.
Hab 2:3 For still the vision awaits its appointed time; it hastens to the end- it will not lie. If it seems slow, wait for
it; it will surely come; it will not delay.
Hab 2:4 "Behold, his soul is puffed up; it is not upright within him, but the righteous shall live by his faith.
Hab 2:5 "Moreover, wine is a traitor, an arrogant man who is never at rest. His greed is as wide as Sheol; like
death he has never enough. He gathers for himself all nations and collects as his own all peoples."
Hab 2:6 Shall not all these take up their taunt against him, with scoffing and riddles for him, and say, "Woe to
him who heaps up what is not his own- for how long?- and loads himself with pledges!"
Hab 2:7 Will not your debtors suddenly arise, and those awake who will make you tremble? Then you will be
spoil for them.
Hab 2:8 Because you have plundered many nations, all the remnant of the peoples shall plunder you, for the
blood of man and violence to the earth, to cities and all who dwell in them.
Hab 2:9 "Woe to him who gets evil gain for his house, to set his nest on high, to be safe from the reach of harm!
Hab 2:10 You have devised shame for your house by cutting off many peoples; you have forfeited your life.
Hab 2:11 For the stone will cry out from the wall, and the beam from the woodwork respond.
Hab 2:12 "Woe to him who builds a town with blood and founds a city on iniquity!
Hab 2:13 Behold, is it not from the LORD of hosts that peoples labor merely for fire, and nations weary
themselves for nothing?
Hab 2:14 For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the LORD as the waters cover the sea.
Hab 2:15 "Woe to him who makes his neighbors drink- you pour out your wrath and make them drunk, in order
to gaze at their nakedness!
Hab 2:16 You will have your fill of shame instead of glory. Drink, yourself, and show your uncircumcision! The
cup in the LORD'S right hand will come around to you, and utter shame will come upon your glory!
Hab 2:17 The violence done to Lebanon will overwhelm you, as will the destruction of the beasts that terrified
them, for the blood of man and violence to the earth, to cities and all who dwell in them.
Hab 2:18 "What profit is an idol when its maker has shaped it, a metal image, a teacher of lies? For its maker
trusts in his own creation when he makes speechless idols!
Hab 2:19 Woe to him who says to a wooden thing, Awake; to a silent stone, Arise! Can this teach? Behold, it is
overlaid with gold and silver, and there is no breath at all in it.
Hab 2:20 But the LORD is in his holy temple; let all the earth keep silence before him."
Hab 3:1 A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet, according to Shigionoth.
Hab 3:2 O LORD, I have heard the report of you, and your work, O LORD, do I fear. In the midst of the years
revive it; in the midst of the years make it known; in wrath remember mercy.
Hab 3:3 God came from Teman, and the Holy One from Mount Paran. His splendor covered the heavens, and
the earth was full of his praise. Selah
Hab 3:4 His brightness was like the light; rays flashed from his hand; and there he veiled his power.
Hab 3:5 Before him went pestilence, and plague followed at his heels.
Hab 3:6 He stood and measured the earth; he looked and shook the nations; then the eternal mountains were
scattered; the everlasting hills sank low. His were the everlasting ways.
Hab 3:7 I saw the tents of Cushan in affliction; the curtains of the land of Midian did tremble.
Hab 3:8 Was your wrath against the rivers, O LORD? Was your anger against the rivers, or your indignation
against the sea, when you rode on your horses, on your chariot of salvation?
Hab 3:9 You stripped the sheath from your bow, calling for many arrows. Selah You split the earth with rivers.
Hab 3:10 The mountains saw you and writhed; the raging waters swept on; the deep gave forth its voice; it lifted
its hands on high.Hab 3:11 The sun and moon stood still in their place at the light of your arrows as they sped, at the flash of your
glittering spear.
Hab 3:12 You marched through the earth in fury; you threshed the nations in anger.
Hab 3:13 You went out for the salvation of your people, for the salvation of your anointed. You crushed the head
of the house of the wicked, laying him bare from thigh to neck. Selah
Hab 3:14 You pierced with his own arrows the heads of his warriors, who came like a whirlwind to scatter me,
rejoicing as if to devour the poor in secret.
Hab 3:15 You trampled the sea with your horses, the surging of mighty waters.
Hab 3:16 I hear, and my body trembles; my lips quiver at the sound; rottenness enters into my bones; my legs
tremble beneath me. Yet I will quietly wait for the day of trouble to come upon people who invade us.
Hab 3:17 Though the fig tree should not blossom, nor fruit be on the vines, the produce of the olive fail and the
fields yield no food, the flock be cut off from the fold and there be no herd in the stalls,
Hab 3:18 yet I will rejoice in the LORD; I will take joy in the God of my salvation.
Hab 3:19 GOD, the Lord, is my strength; he makes my feet like the deer's; he makes me tread on my high
places. To the choirmaster: with stringed instruments.
Zep 1:1 The word of the LORD that came to Zephaniah the son of Cushi, son of Gedaliah, son of Amariah, son
of Hezekiah, in the days of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah.
Zep 1:2 "I will utterly sweep away everything from the face of the earth," declares the LORD.
Zep 1:3 "I will sweep away man and beast; I will sweep away the birds of the heavens and the fish of the sea,
and the rubble with the wicked. I will cut off mankind from the face of the earth," declares the LORD.
Zep 1:4 "I will stretch out my hand against Judah and against all the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and I will cut off
from this place the remnant of Baal and the name of the idolatrous priests along with the priests,
Zep 1:5 those who bow down on the roofs to the host of the heavens, those who bow down and swear to the
LORD and yet swear by Milcom,
Zep 1:6 those who have turned back from following the LORD, who do not seek the LORD or inquire of him."
Zep 1:7 Be silent before the Lord GOD! For the day of the LORD is near; the LORD has prepared a sacrifice
and consecrated his guests.
Zep 1:8 And on the day of the LORD's sacrifice- "I will punish the officials and the king's sons and all who array
themselves in foreign attire.
Zep 1:9 On that day I will punish everyone who leaps over the threshold, and those who fill their master's house
with violence and fraud.
Zep 1:10 "On that day," declares the LORD, "a cry will be heard from the Fish Gate, a wail from the Second
Quarter, a loud crash from the hills.
Zep 1:11 Wail, O inhabitants of the Mortar! For all the traders are no more; all who weigh out silver are cut off.
Zep 1:12 At that time I will search Jerusalem with lamps, and I will punish the men who are complacent, those
who say in their hearts, 'The LORD will not do good, nor will he do ill.'
Zep 1:13 Their goods shall be plundered, and their houses laid waste. Though they build houses, they shall not
inhabit them; though they plant vineyards, they shall not drink wine from them."
Zep 1:14 The great day of the LORD is near, near and hastening fast; the sound of the day of the LORD is
bitter; the mighty man cries aloud there.
Zep 1:15 A day of wrath is that day, a day of distress and anguish, a day of ruin and devastation, a day of
darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness,
Zep 1:16 a day of trumpet blast and battle cry against the fortified cities and against the lofty battlements.
Zep 1:17 I will bring distress on mankind, so that they shall walk like the blind, because they have sinned
against the LORD; their blood shall be poured out like dust, and their flesh like dung.
Zep 1:18 Neither their silver nor their gold shall be able to deliver them on the day of the wrath of the LORD. In
the fire of his jealousy, all the earth shall be consumed; for a full and sudden end he will make of all the
inhabitants of the earth.
Zep 2:1 Gather together, yes, gather,O shameless nation,
Zep 2:2 before the decree takes effect- before the day passes away like chaff- before there comes upon you the
burning anger of the LORD, before there comes upon you the day of the anger of the LORD.
Zep 2:3 Seek the LORD, all you humble of the land, who do his just commands; seek righteousness; seek
humility; perhaps you may be hidden on the day of the anger of the LORD.
Zep 2:4 For Gaza shall be deserted, and Ashkelon shall become a desolation; Ashdod's people shall be driven
out at noon, and Ekron shall be uprooted.
Zep 2:5 Woe to you inhabitants of the seacoast, you nation of the Cherethites! The word of the LORD is against
you, O Canaan, land of the Philistines; and I will destroy you until no inhabitant is left.
Zep 2:6 And you, O seacoast, shall be pastures, with meadows for shepherds and folds for flocks.
Zep 2:7 The seacoast shall become the possession of the remnant of the house of Judah, on which they shallgraze, and in the houses of Ashkelon they shall lie down at evening. For the LORD their God will be mindful of
them and restore their fortunes.
Zep 2:8 "I have heard the taunts of Moab and the revilings of the Ammonites, how they have taunted my people
and made boasts against their territory.
Zep 2:9 Therefore, as I live," declares the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, "Moab shall become like Sodom,
and the Ammonites like Gomorrah, a land possessed by nettles and salt pits, and a waste forever. The remnant
of my people shall plunder them, and the survivors of my nation shall possess them."
Zep 2:10 This shall be their lot in return for their pride, because they taunted and boasted against the people of
the LORD of hosts.
Zep 2:11 The LORD will be awesome against them; for he will famish all the gods of the earth, and to him shall
bow down, each in its place, all the lands of the nations.
Zep 2:12 You also, O Cushites, shall be slain by my sword.
Zep 2:13 And he will stretch out his hand against the north and destroy Assyria, and he will make Nineveh a
desolation, a dry waste like the desert.
Zep 2:14 Herds shall lie down in her midst, all kinds of beasts; even the owl and the hedgehog shall lodge in her
capitals; a voice shall hoot in the window; devastation will be on the threshold; for her cedar work will be laid
bare.
Zep 2:15 This is the exultant city that lived securely, that said in her heart, "I am, and there is no one else."
What a desolation she has become, a lair for wild beasts! Everyone who passes by her hisses and shakes his
fist.
Zep 3:1 Woe to her who is rebellious and defiled, the oppressing city!
Zep 3:2 She listens to no voice; she accepts no correction. She does not trust in the LORD; she does not draw
near to her God.
Zep 3:3 Her officials within her are roaring lions; her judges are evening wolves that leave nothing till the
morning.
Zep 3:4 Her prophets are fickle, treacherous men; her priests profane what is holy; they do violence to the law.
Zep 3:5 The LORD within her is righteous; he does no injustice; every morning he shows forth his justice; each
dawn he does not fail; but the unjust knows no shame.
Zep 3:6 "I have cut off nations; their battlements are in ruins; I have laid waste their streets so that no one walks
in them; their cities have been made desolate, without a man, without an inhabitant.
Zep 3:7 I said, 'Surely you will fear me; you will accept correction. Then your dwelling would not be cut off
according to all that I have appointed against you.' But all the more they were eager to make all their deeds
corrupt.
Zep 3:8 "Therefore wait for me," declares the LORD, "for the day when I rise up to seize the prey. For my
decision is to gather nations, to assemble kingdoms, to pour out upon them my indignation, all my burning anger;
for in the fire of my jealousy all the earth shall be consumed.
Zep 3:9 "For at that time I will change the speech of the peoples to a pure speech, that all of them may call upon
the name of the LORD and serve him with one accord.
Zep 3:10 From beyond the rivers of Cush my worshipers, the daughter of my dispersed ones, shall bring my
offering.
Zep 3:11 "On that day you shall not be put to shame because of the deeds by which you have rebelled against
me; for then I will remove from your midst your proudly exultant ones, and you shall no longer be haughty in my
holy mountain.
Zep 3:12 But I will leave in your midst a people humble and lowly. They shall seek refuge in the name of the
LORD,
Zep 3:13 those who are left in Israel; they shall do no injustice and speak no lies, nor shall there be found in
their mouth a deceitful tongue. For they shall graze and lie down, and none shall make them afraid."
Zep 3:14 Sing aloud, O daughter of Zion; shout, O Israel! Rejoice and exult with all your heart, O daughter of
Jerusalem!
Zep 3:15 The LORD has taken away the judgments against you; he has cleared away your enemies. The King
of Israel, the LORD, is in your midst; you shall never again fear evil.
Zep 3:16 On that day it shall be said to Jerusalem: "Fear not, O Zion; let not your hands grow weak.
Zep 3:17 The LORD your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save; he will rejoice over you with
gladness; he will quiet you by his love; he will exult over you with loud singing.
Zep 3:18 I will gather those of you who mourn for the festival, so that you will no longer suffer reproach.
Zep 3:19 Behold, at that time I will deal with all your oppressors. And I will save the lame and gather the outcast,
and I will change their shame into praise and renown in all the earth.
Zep 3:20 At that time I will bring you in, at the time when I gather you together; for I will make you renowned and
praised among all the peoples of the earth, when I restore your fortunes before your eyes," says the LORD.Hag 1:1 In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, on the first day of the month, the word of the
LORD came by the hand of Haggai the prophet to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to
Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest:
Hag 1:2 "Thus says the LORD of hosts: These people say the time has not yet come to rebuild the house of the
LORD."
Hag 1:3 Then the word of the LORD came by the hand of Haggai the prophet,
Hag 1:4 "Is it a time for you yourselves to dwell in your paneled houses, while this house lies in ruins?
Hag 1:5 Now, therefore, thus says the LORD of hosts: Consider your ways.
Hag 1:6 You have sown much, and harvested little. You eat, but you never have enough; you drink, but you
never have your fill. You clothe yourselves, but no one is warm. And he who earns wages does so to put them
into a bag with holes.
Hag 1:7 "Thus says the LORD of hosts: Consider your ways.
Hag 1:8 Go up to the hills and bring wood and build the house, that I may take pleasure in it and that I may be
glorified, says the LORD.
Hag 1:9 You looked for much, and behold, it came to little. And when you brought it home, I blew it away. Why?
declares the LORD of hosts. Because of my house that lies in ruins, while each of you busies himself with his
own house.
Hag 1:10 Therefore the heavens above you have withheld the dew, and the earth has withheld its produce.
Hag 1:11 And I have called for a drought on the land and the hills, on the grain, the new wine, the oil, on what
the ground brings forth, on man and beast, and on all their labors."
Hag 1:12 Then Zerubbabel the son of She-altiel, and Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, with all the
remnant of the people, obeyed the voice of the LORD their God, and the words of Haggai the prophet, as the
LORD their God had sent him. And the people feared the LORD.
Hag 1:13 Then Haggai, the messenger of the LORD, spoke to the people with the LORD's message, "I am with
you, declares the LORD."
Hag 1:14 And the LORD stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit
of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people. And they came
and worked on the house of the LORD of hosts, their God,
Hag 1:15 on the twenty-fourth day of the month, in the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the king.
Hag 2:1 In the seventh month, on the twenty-first day of the month, the word of the LORD came by the hand of
Haggai the prophet,
Hag 2:2 "Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of
Jehozadak, the high priest, and to all the remnant of the people, and say,
Hag 2:3 'Who is left among you who saw this house in its former glory? How do you see it now? Is it not as
nothing in your eyes?
Hag 2:4 Yet now be strong, O Zerubbabel, declares the LORD. Be strong, O Joshua, son of Jehozadak, the
high priest. Be strong, all you people of the land, declares the LORD. Work, for I am with you, declares the
LORD of hosts,
Hag 2:5 according to the covenant that I made with you when you came out of Egypt. My Spirit remains in your
midst. Fear not.
Hag 2:6 For thus says the LORD of hosts: Yet once more, in a little while, I will shake the heavens and the earth
and the sea and the dry land.
Hag 2:7 And I will shake all nations, so that the treasures of all nations shall come in, and I will fill this house
with glory, says the LORD of hosts.
Hag 2:8 The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, declares the LORD of hosts.
Hag 2:9 The latter glory of this house shall be greater than the former, says the LORD of hosts. And in this
place I will give peace, declares the LORD of hosts.'"
Hag 2:10 On the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of the LORD came
by Haggai the prophet,
Hag 2:11 "Thus says the LORD of hosts: Ask the priests about the law:
Hag 2:12 'If someone carries holy meat in the fold of his garment and touches with his fold bread or stew or
wine or oil or any kind of food, does it become holy?'" The priests answered and said, "No."
Hag 2:13 Then Haggai said, "If someone who is unclean by contact with a dead body touches any of these,
does it become unclean?" The priests answered and said, "It does become unclean."
Hag 2:14 Then Haggai answered and said, "So is it with this people, and with this nation before me, declares
the LORD, and so with every work of their hands. And what they offer there is unclean.
Hag 2:15 Now then, consider from this day onward. Before stone was placed upon stone in the temple of the
LORD,
Hag 2:16 how did you fare? When one came to a heap of twenty measures, there were but ten. When onecame to the wine vat to draw fifty measures, there were but twenty.
Hag 2:17 I struck you and all the products of your toil with blight and with mildew and with hail, yet you did not
turn to me, declares the LORD.
Hag 2:18 Consider from this day onward, from the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month. Since the day that the
foundation of the LORD's temple was laid, consider:
Hag 2:19 Is the seed yet in the barn? Indeed, the vine, the fig tree, the pomegranate, and the olive tree have
yielded nothing. But from this day on I will bless you."
Hag 2:20 The word of the LORD came a second time to Haggai on the twenty-fourth day of the month,
Hag 2:21 "Speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, I am about to shake the heavens and the earth,
Hag 2:22 and to overthrow the throne of kingdoms. I am about to destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the
nations, and overthrow the chariots and their riders. And the horses and their riders shall go down, every one by
the sword of his brother.
Hag 2:23 On that day, declares the LORD of hosts, I will take you, O Zerubbabel my servant, the son of
Shealtiel, declares the LORD, and make you like a signet ring, for I have chosen you, declares the LORD of
hosts."
Zec 1:1 In the eighth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of the LORD came to the prophet Zechariah,
the son of Berechiah, son of Iddo, saying,
Zec 1:2 "The LORD was very angry with your fathers.
Zec 1:3 Therefore say to them, Thus declares the LORD of hosts: Return to me, says the LORD of hosts, and I
will return to you, says the LORD of hosts.
Zec 1:4 Do not be like your fathers, to whom the former prophets cried out, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts,
Return from your evil ways and from your evil deeds.' But they did not hear or pay attention to me, declares the
LORD.
Zec 1:5 Your fathers, where are they? And the prophets, do they live forever?
Zec 1:6 But my words and my statutes, which I commanded my servants the prophets, did they not overtake
your fathers? So they repented and said, As the LORD of hosts purposed to deal with us for our ways and
deeds, so has he dealt with us."
Zec 1:7 On the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh month, which is the month of Shebat, in the second year of
Darius, the word of the LORD came to the prophet Zechariah, the son of Berechiah, son of Iddo, saying,
Zec 1:8 "I saw in the night, and behold, a man riding on a red horse! He was standing among the myrtle trees in
the glen, and behind him were red, sorrel, and white horses.
Zec 1:9 Then I said, 'What are these, my lord?' The angel who talked with me said to me, 'I will show you what
they are.'
Zec 1:10 So the man who was standing among the myrtle trees answered, 'These are they whom the LORD
has sent to patrol the earth.'
Zec 1:11 And they answered the angel of the LORD who was standing among the myrtle trees, and said, 'We
have patrolled the earth, and behold, all the earth remains at rest.'
Zec 1:12 Then the angel of the LORD said, 'O LORD of hosts, how long will you have no mercy on Jerusalem
and the cities of Judah, against which you have been angry these seventy years?'
Zec 1:13 And the LORD answered gracious and comforting words to the angel who talked with me.
Zec 1:14 So the angel who talked with me said to me, 'Cry out, Thus says the LORD of hosts: I am exceedingly
jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion.
Zec 1:15 And I am exceedingly angry with the nations that are at ease; for while I was angry but a little, they
furthered the disaster.
Zec 1:16 Therefore, thus says the LORD, I have returned to Jerusalem with mercy; my house shall be built in it,
declares the LORD of hosts, and the measuring line shall be stretched out over Jerusalem.
Zec 1:17 Cry out again, Thus says the LORD of hosts: My cities shall again overflow with prosperity, and the
LORD will again comfort Zion and again choose Jerusalem.'"
Zec 1:18 And I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, four horns!
Zec 1:19 And I said to the angel who talked with me, "What are these?" And he said to me, "These are the
horns that have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem."
Zec 1:20 Then the LORD showed me four craftsmen.
Zec 1:21 And I said, "What are these coming to do?" He said, "These are the horns that scattered Judah, so
that no one raised his head. And these have come to terrify them, to cast down the horns of the nations who
lifted up their horns against the land of Judah to scatter it."
Zec 2:1 And I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, a man with a measuring line in his hand!
Zec 2:2 Then I said, "Where are you going?" And he said to me, "To measure Jerusalem, to see what is its
width and what is its length."
Zec 2:3 And behold, the angel who talked with me came forward, and another angel came forward to meet himZec 2:4 and said to him, "Run, say to that young man, 'Jerusalem shall be inhabited as villages without walls,
because of the multitude of people and livestock in it.
Zec 2:5 And I will be to her a wall of fire all around, declares the LORD, and I will be the glory in her midst.'"
Zec 2:6 Up! Up! Flee from the land of the north, declares the LORD. For I have spread you abroad as the four
winds of the heavens, declares the LORD.
Zec 2:7 Up! Escape to Zion, you who dwell with the daughter of Babylon.
Zec 2:8 For thus said the LORD of hosts, after his glory sent me to the nations who plundered you, for he who
touches you touches the apple of his eye:
Zec 2:9 "Behold, I will shake my hand over them, and they shall become plunder for those who served them.
Then you will know that the LORD of hosts has sent me.
Zec 2:10 Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, for behold, I come and I will dwell in your midst, declares the
LORD.
Zec 2:11 And many nations shall join themselves to the LORD in that day, and shall be my people. And I will
dwell in your midst, and you shall know that the LORD of hosts has sent me to you.
Zec 2:12 And the LORD will inherit Judah as his portion in the holy land, and will again choose Jerusalem."
Zec 2:13 Be silent, all flesh, before the LORD, for he has roused himself from his holy dwelling.
Zec 3:1 Then he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the LORD, and Satan standing
at his right hand to accuse him.
Zec 3:2 And the LORD said to Satan, "The LORD rebuke you, O Satan! The LORD who has chosen Jerusalem
rebuke you! Is not this a brand plucked from the fire?"
Zec 3:3 Now Joshua was standing before the angel, clothed with filthy garments.
Zec 3:4 And the angel said to those who were standing before him, "Remove the filthy garments from him." And
to him he said, "Behold, I have taken your iniquity away from you, and I will clothe you with pure vestments."
Zec 3:5 And I said, "Let them put a clean turban on his head." So they put a clean turban on his head and
clothed him with garments. And the angel of the LORD was standing by.
Zec 3:6 And the angel of the LORD solemnly assured Joshua,
Zec 3:7 "Thus says the LORD of hosts: If you will walk in my ways and keep my charge, then you shall rule my
house and have charge of my courts, and I will give you the right of access among those who are standing here.
Zec 3:8 Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for they are men who are
a sign: behold, I will bring my servant the Branch.
Zec 3:9 For behold, on the stone that I have set before Joshua, on a single stone with seven eyes, I will engrave
its inscription, declares the LORD of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day.
Zec 3:10 In that day, declares the LORD of hosts, every one of you will invite his neighbor to come under his
vine and under his fig tree."
Zec 4:1 And the angel who talked with me came again and woke me, like a man who is awakened out of his
sleep.
Zec 4:2 And he said to me, "What do you see?" I said, "I see, and behold, a lampstand all of gold, with a bowl
on the top of it, and seven lamps on it, with seven lips on each of the lamps that are on the top of it.
Zec 4:3 And there are two olive trees by it, one on the right of the bowl and the other on its left."
Zec 4:4 And I said to the angel who talked with me, "What are these, my lord?"
Zec 4:5 Then the angel who talked with me answered and said to me, "Do you not know what these are?" I said,
"No, my lord."
Zec 4:6 Then he said to me, "This is the word of the LORD to Zerubbabel: Not by might, nor by power, but by
my Spirit, says the LORD of hosts.
Zec 4:7 Who are you, O great mountain? Before Zerubbabel you shall become a plain. And he shall bring
forward the top stone amid shouts of 'Grace, grace to it!'"
Zec 4:8 Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Zec 4:9 "The hands of Ze rubbabel have laid the foundation of this house; his hands shall also complete it. Then
you will know that the LORD of hosts has sent me to you.
Zec 4:10 For whoever has despised the day of small things shall rejoice, and shall see the plumb line in the
hand of Zerubbabel. "These seven are the eyes of the LORD, which range through the whole earth."
Zec 4:11 Then I said to him, "What are these two olive trees on the right and the left of the lampstand?"
Zec 4:12 And a second time I answered and said to him, "What are these two branches of the olive trees, which
are beside the two golden pipes from which the golden oil is poured out?"
Zec 4:13 He said to me, "Do you not know what these are?" I said, "No, my lord."
Zec 4:14 Then he said, "These are the two anointed ones who stand by the Lord of the whole earth."
Zec 5:1 Again I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, a flying scroll!
Zec 5:2 And he said to me, "What do you see?" I answered, "I see a flying scroll. Its length is twenty cubits, and
its width ten cubits."Zec 5:3 Then he said to me, "This is the curse that goes out over the face of the whole land. For everyone who
steals shall be cleaned out according to what is on one side, and everyone who swears falsely shall be cleaned
out according to what is on the other side.
Zec 5:4 I will send it out, declares the LORD of hosts, and it shall enter the house of the thief, and the house of
him who swears falsely by my name. And it shall remain in his house and consume it, both timber and stones."
Zec 5:5 Then the angel who talked with me came forward and said to me, "Lift your eyes and see what this is
that is going out."
Zec 5:6 And I said, "What is it?" He said, "This is the basket that is going out." And he said, "This is their iniquity
in all the land."
Zec 5:7 And behold, the leaden cover was lifted, and there was a woman sitting in the basket!
Zec 5:8 And he said, "This is Wickedness." And he thrust her back into the basket, and thrust down the leaden
weight on its opening.
Zec 5:9 Then I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, two women coming forward! The wind was in their wings.
They had wings like the wings of a stork, and they lifted up the basket between earth and heaven.
Zec 5:10 Then I said to the angel who talked with me, "Where are they taking the basket?"
Zec 5:11 He said to me, "To the land of Shinar, to build a house for it. And when this is prepared, they will set
the basket down there on its base."
Zec 6:1 Again I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, four chariots came out from between two mountains. And
the mountains were mountains of bronze.
Zec 6:2 The first chariot had red horses, the second black horses,
Zec 6:3 the third white horses, and the fourth chariot dappled horses- all of them strong.
Zec 6:4 Then I answered and said to the angel who talked with me, "What are these, my lord?"
Zec 6:5 And the angel answered and said to me, "These are going out to the four winds of heaven, after
presenting themselves before the LORD of all the earth.
Zec 6:6 The chariot with the black horses goes toward the north country, the white ones go after them, and the
dappled ones go toward the south country."
Zec 6:7 When the strong horses came out, they were impatient to go and patrol the earth. And he said, "Go,
patrol the earth." So they patrolled the earth.
Zec 6:8 Then he cried to me, "Behold, those who go toward the north country have set my Spirit at rest in the
north country."
Zec 6:9 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Zec 6:10 "Take from the exiles Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah, who have arrived from Babylon, and go the same
day to the house of Josiah, the son of Zephaniah.
Zec 6:11 Take from them silver and gold, and make a crown, and set it on the head of Joshua, the son of
Jehozadak, the high priest.
Zec 6:12 And say to him, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, "Behold, the man whose name is the Branch: for he
shall branch out from his place, and he shall build the temple of the LORD.
Zec 6:13 It is he who shall build the temple of the LORD and shall bear royal honor, and shall sit and rule on his
throne. And there shall be a priest on his throne, and the counsel of peace shall be between them both."'
Zec 6:14 And the crown shall be in the temple of the LORD as a reminder to Helem, Tobijah, Jedaiah, and Hen
the son of Zephaniah.
Zec 6:15 "And those who are far off shall come and help to build the temple of the LORD. And you shall know
that the LORD of hosts has sent me to you. And this shall come to pass, if you will diligently obey the voice of
the LORD your God."
Zec 7:1 In the fourth year of King Darius, the word of the LORD came to Zechariah on the fourth day of the ninth
month, which is Chislev.
Zec 7:2 Now the people of Bethel had sent Sharezer and Regem-melech and their men to entreat the favor of
the LORD,
Zec 7:3 saying to the priests of the house of the LORD of hosts and the prophets, "Should I weep and abstain in
the fifth month, as I have done for so many years?"
Zec 7:4 Then the word of the LORD of hosts came to me:
Zec 7:5 "Say to all the people of the land and the priests, When you fasted and mourned in the fifth month and
in the seventh, for these seventy years, was it for me that you fasted?
Zec 7:6 And when you eat and when you drink, do you not eat for yourselves and drink for yourselves?
Zec 7:7 Were not these the words that the LORD proclaimed by the former prophets, when Jerusalem was
inhabited and prosperous, with her cities around her, and the South and the lowland were inhabited?"
Zec 7:8 And the word of the LORD came to Zechariah, saying,
Zec 7:9 "Thus says the LORD of hosts, Render true judgments, show kindness and mercy to one another,
Zec 7:10 do not oppress the widow, the fatherless, the sojourner, or the poor, and let none of you devise evilagainst another in your heart."
Zec 7:11 But they refused to pay attention and turned a stubborn shoulder and stopped their ears that they
might not hear.
Zec 7:12 They made their hearts diamond-hard lest they should hear the law and the words that the LORD of
hosts had sent by his Spirit through the former prophets. Therefore great anger came from the LORD of hosts.
Zec 7:13 "As I called, and they would not hear, so they called, and I would not hear," says the LORD of hosts,
Zec 7:14 "and I scattered them with a whirlwind among all the nations that they had not known. Thus the land
they left was desolate, so that no one went to and fro, and the pleasant land was made desolate."
Zec 8:1 And the word of the LORD of hosts came, saying,
Zec 8:2 "Thus says the LORD of hosts: I am jealous for Zion with great jealousy, and I am jealous for her with
great wrath.
Zec 8:3 Thus says the LORD: I have returned to Zion and will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem, and Jerusalem
shall be called the faithful city, and the mountain of the LORD of hosts, the holy mountain.
Zec 8:4 Thus says the LORD of hosts: Old men and old women shall again sit in the streets of Jerusalem, each
with staff in hand because of great age.
Zec 8:5 And the streets of the city shall be full of boys and girls playing in its streets.
Zec 8:6 Thus says the LORD of hosts: If it is marvelous in the sight of the remnant of this people in those days,
should it also be marvelous in my sight, declares the LORD of hosts?
Zec 8:7 Thus says the LORD of hosts: behold, I will save my people from the east country and from the west
country,
Zec 8:8 and I will bring them to dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. And they shall be my people, and I will be their
God, in faithfulness and in righteousness."
Zec 8:9 Thus says the LORD of hosts: "Let your hands be strong, you who in these days have been hearing
these words from the mouth of the prophets who were present on the day that the foundation of the house of the
LORD of hosts was laid, that the temple might be built.
Zec 8:10 For before those days there was no wage for man or any wage for beast, neither was there any safety
from the foe for him who went out or came in, for I set every man against his neighbor.
Zec 8:11 But now I will not deal with the remnant of this people as in the former days, declares the LORD of
hosts.
Zec 8:12 For there shall be a sowing of peace. The vine shall give its fruit, and the ground shall give its produce,
and the heavens shall give their dew. And I will cause the remnant of this people to possess all these things.
Zec 8:13 And as you have been a byword of cursing among the nations, O house of Judah and house of Israel,
so will I save you, and you shall be a blessing. Fear not, but let your hands be strong."
Zec 8:14 For thus says the LORD of hosts: "As I purposed to bring disaster to you when your fathers provoked
me to wrath, and I did not relent, says the LORD of hosts,
Zec 8:15 so again have I purposed in these days to bring good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah; fear
not.
Zec 8:16 These are the things that you shall do: Speak the truth to one another; render in your gates judgments
that are true and make for peace;
Zec 8:17 do not devise evil in your hearts against one another, and love no false oath, for all these things I hate,
declares the LORD."
Zec 8:18 And the word of the LORD of hosts came to me, saying,
Zec 8:19 "Thus says the LORD of hosts: The fast of the fourth month and the fast of the fifth and the fast of the
seventh and the fast of the tenth shall be to the house of Judah seasons of joy and gladness and cheerful feasts.
Therefore love truth and peace.
Zec 8:20 "Thus says the LORD of hosts: Peoples shall yet come, even the inhabitants of many cities.
Zec 8:21 The inhabitants of one city shall go to another, saying, 'Let us go at once to entreat the favor of the
LORD and to seek the LORD of hosts; I myself am going.'
Zec 8:22 Many peoples and strong nations shall come to seek the LORD of hosts in Jerusalem and to entreat
the favor of the LORD.
Zec 8:23 Thus says the LORD of hosts: In those days ten men from the nations of every tongue shall take hold
of the robe of a Jew, saying, 'Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you.'"
Zec 9:1 The burden of the word of the LORD is against the land of Hadrach and Damascus is its resting place.
For the LORD has an eye on mankind and on all the tribes of Israel,
Zec 9:2 and on Hamath also, which borders on it, Tyre and Sidon, though they are very wise.
Zec 9:3 Tyre has built herself a rampart and heaped up silver like dust, and fine gold like the mud of the streets.
Zec 9:4 But behold, the Lord will strip her of her possessions and strike down her power on the sea, and she
shall be devoured by fire.
Zec 9:5 Ashkelon shall see it, and be afraid; Gaza too, and shall writhe in anguish; Ekron also, because itshopes are confounded. The king shall perish from Gaza; Ashkelon shall be uninhabited;
Zec 9:6 a mixed people shall dwell in Ashdod, and I will cut off the pride of Philistia.
Zec 9:7 I will take away its blood from its mouth, and its abominations from between its teeth; it too shall be a
remnant for our God; it shall be like a clan in Judah, and Ekron shall be like the Jebusites.
Zec 9:8 Then I will encamp at my house as a guard, so that none shall march to and fro; no oppressor shall
again march over them, for now I see with my own eyes.
Zec 9:9 Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion! Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem! behold, your king is coming
to you; righteous and having salvation is he, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey.
Zec 9:10 I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim and the war horse from Jerusalem; and the battle bow shall be
cut off, and he shall speak peace to the nations; his rule shall be from sea to sea, and from the River to the ends
of the earth.
Zec 9:11 As for you also, because of the blood of my covenant with you, I will set your prisoners free from the
waterless pit.
Zec 9:12 Return to your stronghold, O prisoners of hope; today I declare that I will restore to you double.
Zec 9:13 For I have bent Judah as my bow; I have made Ephraim its arrow. I will stir up your sons, O Zion,
against your sons, O Greece, and wield you like a warrior's sword.
Zec 9:14 Then the LORD will appear over them, and his arrow will go forth like lightning; the Lord GOD will
sound the trumpet and will march forth in the whirlwinds of the south.
Zec 9:15 The LORD of hosts will protect them, and they shall devour, and tread down the sling stones, and they
shall drink and roar as if drunk with wine, and be full like a bowl, drenched like the corners of the altar.
Zec 9:16 On that day the LORD their God will save them, as the flock of his people; for like the jewels of a
crown they shall shine on his land.
Zec 9:17 For how great is his goodness, and how great his beauty! Grain shall make the young men flourish,
and new wine the young women.
Zec 10:1 Ask rain from the LORDin the season of the spring rain, from the LORD who makes the storm clouds,
and he will give them showers of rain, to everyone the vegetation in the field.
Zec 10:2 For the household gods utter nonsense, and the diviners see lies; they tell false dreams and give
empty consolation. Therefore the people wander like sheep; they are afflicted for lack of a shepherd.
Zec 10:3 "My anger is hot against the shepherds, and I will punish the leaders; for the LORD of hosts cares for
his flock, the house of Judah, and will make them like his majestic steed in battle.
Zec 10:4 From him shall come the cornerstone, from him the tent peg, from him the battle bow, from him every
ruler- all of them together.
Zec 10:5 They shall be like mighty men in battle, trampling the foe in the mud of the streets; they shall fight
because the LORD is with them, and they shall put to shame the riders on horses.
Zec 10:6 "I will strengthen the house of Judah, and I will save the house of Joseph. I will bring them back
because I have compassion on them, and they shall be as though I had not rejected them, for I am the LORD
their God and I will answer them.
Zec 10:7 Then Ephraim shall become like a mighty warrior, and their hearts shall be glad as with wine. Their
children shall see it and be glad; their hearts shall rejoice in the LORD.
Zec 10:8 "I will whistle for them and gather them in, for I have redeemed them, and they shall be as many as
they were before.
Zec 10:9 Though I scattered them among the nations, yet in far countries they shall remember me, and with
their children they shall live and return.
Zec 10:10 I will bring them home from the land of Egypt, and gather them from Assyria, and I will bring them to
the land of Gilead and to Lebanon, till there is no room for them.
Zec 10:11 He shall pass through the sea of troubles and strike down the waves of the sea, and all the depths of
the Nile shall be dried up. The pride of Assyria shall be laid low, and the scepter of Egypt shall depart.
Zec 10:12 I will make them strong in the LORD, and they shall walk in his name," declares the LORD.
Zec 11:1 Open your doors, O Lebanon, that the fire may devour your cedars!
Zec 11:2 Wail, O cypress, for the cedar has fallen, for the glorious trees are ruined! Wail, oaks of Bashan, for
the thick forest has been felled!
Zec 11:3 The sound of the wail of the shepherds, for their glory is ruined! The sound of the roar of the lions, for
the thicket of the Jordan is ruined!
Zec 11:4 Thus said the LORD my God: "Become shepherd of the flock doomed to slaughter.
Zec 11:5 Those who buy them slaughter them and go unpunished, and those who sell them say, 'Blessed be
the LORD, I have become rich,' and their own shepherds have no pity on them.
Zec 11:6 For I will no longer have pity on the inhabitants of this land, declares the LORD. Behold, I will cause
each of them to fall into the hand of his neighbor, and each into the hand of his king, and they shall crush the
land, and I will deliver none from their hand."Zec 11:7 So I became the shepherd of the flock doomed to be slaughtered by the sheep traders. And I took two
staffs, one I named Favor, the other I named Union. And I tended the sheep.
Zec 11:8 In one month I destroyed the three shepherds. But I became impatient with them, and they also
detested me.
Zec 11:9 So I said, "I will not be your shepherd. What is to die, let it die. What is to be destroyed, let it be
destroyed. And let those who are left devour the flesh of one another."
Zec 11:10 And I took my staff Favor, and I broke it, annulling the covenant that I had made with all the peoples.
Zec 11:11 So it was annulled on that day, and the sheep traders, who were watching me, knew that it was the
word of the LORD.
Zec 11:12 Then I said to them, "If it seems good to you, give me my wages; but if not, keep them." And they
weighed out as my wages thirty pieces of silver.
Zec 11:13 Then the LORD said to me, "Throw it to the potter"- the lordly price at which I was priced by them. So
I took the thirty pieces of silver and threw them into the house of the LORD, to the potter.
Zec 11:14 Then I broke my second staff Union, annulling the brotherhood between Judah and Israel.
Zec 11:15 Then the LORD said to me, "Take once more the equipment of a foolish shepherd.
Zec 11:16 For behold, I am raising up in the land a shepherd who does not care for those being destroyed, or
seek the young or heal the maimed or nourish the healthy, but devours the flesh of the fat ones, tearing off even
their hoofs.
Zec 11:17 "Woe to my worthless shepherd, who deserts the flock! May the sword strike his arm and his right
eye! Let his arm be wholly withered, his right eye utterly blinded!"
Zec 12:1 The burden of the word of the LORD concerning Israel: Thus declares the LORD, who stretched out
the heavens and founded the earth and formed the spirit of man within him:
Zec 12:2 "Behold, I am about to make Jerusalem a cup of staggering to all the surrounding peoples. The siege
of Jerusalem will also be against Judah.
Zec 12:3 On that day I will make Jerusalem a heavy stone for all the peoples. All who lift it will surely hurt
themselves. And all the nations of the earth will gather against it.
Zec 12:4 On that day, declares the LORD, I will strike every horse with panic, and its rider with madness. But for
the sake of the house of Judah I will keep my eyes open, when I strike every horse of the peoples with
blindness.
Zec 12:5 Then the clans of Judah shall say to themselves, 'The inhabitants of Jerusalem have strength through
the LORD of hosts, their God.'
Zec 12:6 "On that day I will make the clans of Judah like a blazing pot in the midst of wood, like a flaming torch
among sheaves. And they shall devour to the right and to the left all the surrounding peoples, while Jerusalem
shall again be inhabited in its place, in Jerusalem.
Zec 12:7 "And the LORD will give salvation to the tents of Judah first, that the glory of the house of David and
the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem may not surpass that of Judah.
Zec 12:8 On that day the LORD will protect the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the feeblest among them on
that day shall be like David, and the house of David shall be like God, like the angel of the LORD, going before
them.
Zec 12:9 And on that day I will seek to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem.
Zec 12:10 "And I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and pleas
for mercy, so that, when they look on me, on him whom they have pierced, they shall mourn for him, as one
mourns for an only child, and weep bitterly over him, as one weeps over a firstborn.
Zec 12:11 On that day the mourning in Jerusalem will be as great as the mourning for Hadad-rimmon in the
plain of Megiddo.
Zec 12:12 The land shall mourn, each family by itself: the family of the house of David by itself, and their wives
by themselves; the family of the house of Nathan by itself, and their wives by themselves;
Zec 12:13 the family of the house of Levi by itself, and their wives by themselves; the family of the Shimeites by
itself, and their wives by themselves;
Zec 12:14 and all the families that are left, each by itself, and their wives by themselves.
Zec 13:1 "On that day there shall be a fountain opened for the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem,
to cleanse them from sin and uncleanness.
Zec 13:2 "And on that day, declares the LORD of hosts, I will cut off the names of the idols from the land, so that
they shall be remembered no more. And also I will remove from the land the prophets and the spirit of
uncleanness.
Zec 13:3 And if anyone again prophesies, his father and mother who bore him will say to him, 'You shall not live,
for you speak lies in the name of the LORD.' And his father and mother who bore him shall pierce him through
when he prophesies.
Zec 13:4 "On that day every prophet will be ashamed of his vision when he prophesies. He will not put on ahairy cloak in order to deceive,
Zec 13:5 but he will say, 'I am no prophet, I am a worker of the soil, for a man sold me in my youth.'
Zec 13:6 And if one asks him, 'What are these wounds on your back?' he will say, 'The wounds I received in the
house of my friends.'
Zec 13:7 "Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, against the man who stands next to me," declares the LORD
of hosts. "Strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered; I will turn my hand against the little ones.
Zec 13:8 In the whole land, declares the LORD, two thirds shall be cut off and perish, and one third shall be left
alive.
Zec 13:9 And I will put this third into the fire, and refine them as one refines silver, and test them as gold is
tested. They will call upon my name, and I will answer them. I will say, 'They are my people'; and they will say,
'The LORD is my God.'"
Zec 14:1 Behold, a day is coming for the LORD, when the spoil taken from you will be divided in your midst.
Zec 14:2 For I will gather all the nations against Jerusalem to battle, and the city shall be taken and the houses
plundered and the women raped. Half of the city shall go out into exile, but the rest of the people shall not be cut
off from the city.
Zec 14:3 Then the LORD will go out and fight against those nations as when he fights on a day of battle.
Zec 14:4 On that day his feet shall stand on the Mount of Olives that lies before Jerusalem on the east, and the
Mount of Olives shall be split in two from east to west by a very wide valley, so that one half of the Mount shall
move northward, and the other half southward.
Zec 14:5 And you shall flee to the valley of my mountains, for the valley of the mountains shall reach to Azal.
And you shall flee as you fled from the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah. Then the LORD my God
will come, and all the holy ones with him.
Zec 14:6 On that day there shall be no light, cold, or frost.
Zec 14:7 And there shall be a unique day, which is known to the LORD, neither day nor night, but at evening
time there shall be light.
Zec 14:8 On that day living waters shall flow out from Jerusalem, half of them to the eastern sea and half of
them to the western sea. It shall continue in summer as in winter.
Zec 14:9 And the LORD will be king over all the earth. On that day the LORD will be one and his name one.
Zec 14:10 The whole land shall be turned into a plain from Geba to Rimmon south of Jerusalem. But Jerusalem
shall remain aloft on its site from the Gate of Benjamin to the place of the former gate, to the Corner Gate, and
from the Tower of Hananel to the king's winepresses.
Zec 14:11 And it shall be inhabited, for there shall never again be a decree of utter destruction. Jerusalem shall
dwell in security.
Zec 14:12 And this shall be the plague with which the LORD will strike all the peoples that wage war against
Jerusalem: their flesh will rot while they are still standing on their feet, their eyes will rot in their sockets, and their
tongues will rot in their mouths.
Zec 14:13 And on that day a great panic from the LORD shall fall on them, so that each will seize the hand of
another, and the hand of the one will be raised against the hand of the other.
Zec 14:14 Even Judah will fight against Jerusalem. And the wealth of all the surrounding nations shall be
collected, gold, silver, and garments in great abundance.
Zec 14:15 And a plague like this plague shall fall on the horses, the mules, the camels, the donkeys, and
whatever beasts may be in those camps.
Zec 14:16 Then everyone who survives of all the nations that have come against Jerusalem shall go up year
after year to worship the King, the LORD of hosts, and to keep the Feast of Booths.
Zec 14:17 And if any of the families of the earth do not go up to Jerusalem to worship the King, the LORD of
hosts, there will be no rain on them.
Zec 14:18 And if the family of Egypt does not go up and present themselves, then on them there shall be no
rain; there shall be the plague with which the LORD afflicts the nations that do not go up to keep the Feast of
Booths.
Zec 14:19 This shall be the punishment to Egypt and the punishment to all the nations that do not go up to keep
the Feast of Booths.
Zec 14:20 And on that day there shall be inscribed on the bells of the horses, "Holy to the LORD." And the pots
in the house of the LORD shall be as the bowls before the altar.
Zec 14:21 And every pot in Jerusalem and Judah shall be holy to the LORD of hosts, so that all who sacrifice
may come and take of them and boil the meat of the sacrifice in them. And there shall no longer be a trader in
the house of the LORD of hosts on that day.
Mal 1:1 The oracle of the word of the LORD to Israel by Malachi.
Mal 1:2 "I have loved you," says the LORD. But you say, "How have you loved us?" "Is not Esau Jacob's
brother?" declares the LORD. "Yet I have loved JacobMal 1:3 but Esau I have hated. I have laid waste his hill country and left his heritage to jackals of the desert."
Mal 1:4 If Edom says, "We are shattered but we will rebuild the ruins," the LORD of hosts says, "They may
build, but I will tear down, and they will be called 'the wicked country,' and 'the people with whom the LORD is
angry forever.'"
Mal 1:5 Your own eyes shall see this, and you shall say, "Great is the LORD beyond the border of Israel!"
Mal 1:6 "A son honors his father, and a servant his master. If then I am a father, where is my honor? And if I am
a master, where is my fear? says the LORD of hosts to you, O priests, who despise my name. But you say, 'How
have we despised your name?'
Mal 1:7 By offering polluted food upon my altar. But you say, 'How have we polluted you?' By saying that the
LORD's table may be despised.
Mal 1:8 When you offer blind animals in sacrifice, is that not evil? And when you offer those that are lame or
sick, is that not evil? Present that to your governor; will he accept you or show you favor? says the LORD of
hosts.
Mal 1:9 And now entreat the favor of God, that he may be gracious to us. With such a gift from your hand, will
he show favor to any of you? says the LORD of hosts.
Mal 1:10 Oh that there were one among you who would shut the doors, that you might not kindle fire on my altar
in vain! I have no pleasure in you, says the LORD of hosts, and I will not accept an offering from your hand.
Mal 1:11 For from the rising of the sun to its setting my name will be great among the nations, and in every
place incense will be offered to my name, and a pure offering. For my name will be great among the nations,
says the LORD of hosts.
Mal 1:12 But you profane it when you say that the Lord's table is polluted, and its fruit, that is, its food may be
despised.
Mal 1:13 But you say, 'What a weariness this is,' and you snort at it, says the LORD of hosts. You bring what
has been taken by violence or is lame or sick, and this you bring as your offering! Shall I accept that from your
hand? says the LORD.
Mal 1:14 Cursed be the cheat who has a male in his flock, and vows it, and yet sacrifices to the Lord what is
blemished. For I am a great King, says the LORD of hosts, and my name will be feared among the nations.
Mal 2:1 "And now, O priests, this command is for you.
Mal 2:2 If you will not listen, if you will not take it to heart to give honor to my name, says the LORD of hosts,
then I will send the curse upon you and I will curse your blessings. Indeed, I have already cursed them, because
you do not lay it to heart.
Mal 2:3 Behold, I will rebuke your offspring, and spread dung on your faces, the dung of your offerings, and you
shall be taken away with it.
Mal 2:4 So shall you know that I have sent this command to you, that my covenant with Levi may stand, says
the LORD of hosts.
Mal 2:5 My covenant with him was one of life and peace, and I gave them to him. It was a covenant of fear, and
he feared me. He stood in awe of my name.
Mal 2:6 True instruction was in his mouth, and no wrong was found on his lips. He walked with me in peace and
uprightness, and he turned many from iniquity.
Mal 2:7 For the lips of a priest should guard knowledge, and people should seek instruction from his mouth, for
he is the messenger of the LORD of hosts.
Mal 2:8 But you have turned aside from the way. You have caused many to stumble by your instruction. You
have corrupted the covenant of Levi, says the LORD of hosts,
Mal 2:9 and so I make you despised and abased before all the people, inasmuch as you do not keep my ways
but show partiality in your instruction."
Mal 2:10 Have we not all one Father? Has not one God created us? Why then are we faithless to one another,
profaning the covenant of our fathers?
Mal 2:11 Judah has been faithless, and abomination has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem. For Judah
has profaned the sanctuary of the LORD, which he loves, and has married the daughter of a foreign god.
Mal 2:12 May the LORD cut off from the tents of Jacob, any descendant of the man who does this, who brings
an offering to the LORD of hosts!
Mal 2:13 And this second thing you do. You cover the LORD's altar with tears, with weeping and groaning
because he no longer regards the offering or accepts it with favor from your hand.
Mal 2:14 But you say, "Why does he not?" Because the LORD was witness between you and the wife of your
youth, to whom you have been faithless, though she is your companion and your wife by covenant.
Mal 2:15 Did he not make them one, with a portion of the Spirit in their union? And what was the one God
seeking? Godly offspring. So guard yourselves in your spirit, and let none of you be faithless to the wife of your
youth.
Mal 2:16 "For the man who hates and divorces, says the LORD, the God of Israel, covers his garment withviolence, says the LORD of hosts. So guard yourselves in your spirit, and do not be faithless."
Mal 2:17 You have wearied the LORD with your words. But you say, "How have we wearied him?" By saying,
"Everyone who does evil is good in the sight of the LORD, and he delights in them." Or by asking, "Where is the
God of justice?"
Mal 3:1 "Behold, I send my messenger and he will prepare the way before me. And the Lord whom you seek will
suddenly come to his temple; and the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight, behold, he is coming,
says the LORD of hosts.
Mal 3:2
Mal 3:3 But who can endure the day of his coming, and who can stand when he appears? For he is like a
refiner's fire and like fullers' soap.
Mal 3:4 He will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi and refine them like gold
and silver, and they will bring offerings in righteousness to the LORD.
Mal 3:5 Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the LORD as in the days of old and as in
former years.
Mal 3:6 "Then I will draw near to you for judgment. I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the
adulterers, against those who swear falsely, against those who oppress the hired worker in his wages, the widow
and the fatherless, against those who thrust aside the sojourner, and do not fear me, says the LORD of hosts.
Mal 3:7 "For I the LORD do not change; therefore you, O children of Jacob, are not consumed.
Mal 3:8 From the days of your fathers you have turned aside from my statutes and have not kept them. Return
to me, and I will return to you, says the LORD of hosts. But you say, 'How shall we return?'
Mal 3:9 Will man rob God? Yet you are robbing me. But you say, 'How have we robbed you?' In your tithes and
contributions.
Mal 3:10 You are cursed with a curse, for you are robbing me, the whole nation of you.
Mal 3:11 Bring the full tithes into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house. And thereby put me to the
test, says the LORD of hosts, if I will not open the windows of heaven for you and pour down for you a blessing
until there is no more need.
Mal 3:12 I will rebuke the devourer for you, so that it will not destroy the fruits of your soil, and your vine in the
field shall not fail to bear, says the LORD of hosts.
Mal 3:13 Then all nations will call you blessed, for you will be a land of delight, says the LORD of hosts.
Mal 3:14 "Your words have been hard against me, says the LORD. But you say, 'How have we spoken against
you?'
Mal 3:15 You have said, 'It is vain to serve God. What is the profit of our keeping his charge or of walking as in
mourning before the LORD of hosts?
Mal 3:16 And now we call the arrogant blessed. Evildoers not only prosper but they put God to the test and they
escape.'"
Mal 3:17 Then those who feared the LORD spoke with one another. The LORD paid attention and heard them,
and a book of remembrance was written before him of those who feared the LORD and esteemed his name.
Mal 3:18 "They shall be mine, says the LORD of hosts, in the day when I make up my trea sured possession,
and I will spare them as a man spares his son who serves him.
Mal 3:19 Then once more you shall see the distinction between the righteous and the wicked, between one who
serves God and one who does not serve him.
Mal 4:1 "For behold, the day is coming, burning like an oven, when all the arrogant and all evildoers will be
stubble. The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says the LORD of hosts, so that it will leave them neither
root nor branch.
Mal 4:2 But for you who fear my name, the sun of righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings. You shall go
out leaping like calves from the stall.
Mal 4:3 And you shall tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet, on the day
when I act, says the LORD of hosts.
Mal 4:4 "Remember the law of my servant Moses, the statutes and rules that I commanded him at Horeb for all
Israel.
Mal 4:5 "Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the LORD comes.
Mal 4:6 And he will turn the hearts of fathers to their children and the hearts of children to their fathers, lest I
come and strike the land with a decree of utter destruction."
Mat 1:1 The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.
Mat 1:2 Abraham was the father of Isaac, and Isaac the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah and his
brothers,
Mat 1:3 and Judah the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar, and Perez the father of Hezron, and Hezron the
father of Ram,
Mat 1:4 and Ram the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab the father of Nahshon, and Nahshon the father ofSalmon,
Mat 1:5 and Salmon the father of Boaz by Rahab, and Boaz the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed the father of
Jesse,
Mat 1:6 and Jesse the father of David the king. And David was the father of Solomon by the wife of Uriah,
Mat 1:7 and Solomon the father of Rehoboam, and Rehoboam the father of Abijah, and Abijah the father of
Asaph,
Mat 1:8 and Asaph the father of Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, and Joram the father of
Uzziah,
Mat 1:9 and Uzziah the father of Jotham, and Jotham the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz the father of Hezekiah,
Mat 1:10 and Hezekiah the father of Manasseh, and Manasseh the father of Amos, and Amos the father of
Josiah,
Mat 1:11 and Josiah the father of Jechoniah and his brothers, at the time of the deportation to Babylon.
Mat 1:12 And after the deportation to Babylon: Jechoniah was the father of Shealtiel, and Shealtiel the father of
Zerubbabel,
Mat 1:13 and Zerubbabel the father of Abiud, and Abiud the father of Eliakim, and Eliakim the father of Azor,
Mat 1:14 and Azor the father of Zadok, and Zadok the father of Achim, and Achim the father of Eliud,
Mat 1:15 and Eliud the father of Eleazar, and Eleazar the father of Matthan, and Matthan the father of Jacob,
Mat 1:16 and Jacob the father of Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ.
Mat 1:17 So all the generations from Abraham to David were fourteen generations, and from David to the
deportation to Babylon fourteen generations, and from the deportation to Babylon to the Christ fourteen
generations.
Mat 1:18 Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to
Joseph, before they came together she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit.
Mat 1:19 And her husband Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her
quietly.
Mat 1:20 But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying,
"Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy
Spirit.
Mat 1:21 She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins."
Mat 1:22 All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet:
Mat 1:23 "Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Immanuel" (which
means, God with us).
Mat 1:24 When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him: he took his wife,
Mat 1:25 but knew her not until she had given birth to a son. And he called his name Jesus.
Mat 2:1 Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from
the east came to Jerusalem,
Mat 2:2 saying, "Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose and have
come to worship him."
Mat 2:3 When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him;
Mat 2:4 and assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was
to be born.
Mat 2:5 They told him, "In Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet:
Mat 2:6 "' And you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah; for
from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel.'"
Mat 2:7 Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly and ascertained from them what time the star had
appeared.
Mat 2:8 And he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, "Go and search diligently for the child, and when you have
found him, bring me word, that I too may come and worship him."
Mat 2:9 After listening to the king, they went on their way. And behold, the star that they had seen when it rose
went before them until it came to rest over the place where the child was.
Mat 2:10 When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy.
Mat 2:11 And going into the house they saw the child with Mary his mother, and they fell down and worshiped
him. Then, opening their treasures, they offered him gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh.
Mat 2:12 And being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another
way.
Mat 2:13 Now when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said,
"Rise, take the child and his mother, and flee to Egypt, and remain there until I tell you, for Herod is about to
search for the child, to destroy him."
Mat 2:14 And he rose and took the child and his mother by night and departed to EgyptMat 2:15 and remained there until the death of Herod. This was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the
prophet, "Out of Egypt I called my son."
Mat 2:16 Then Herod, when he saw that he had been tricked by the wise men, became furious, and he sent and
killed all the male children in Bethlehem and in all that region who were two years old or under, according to the
time that he had ascertained from the wise men.
Mat 2:17 Then was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah:
Mat 2:18 "A voice was heard in Ramah, weeping and loud lamentation, Rachel weeping for her children; she
refused to be comforted, because they are no more."
Mat 2:19 But when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt,
Mat 2:20 saying, "Rise, take the child and his mother and go to the land of Israel, for those who sought the
child's life are dead."
Mat 2:21 And he rose and took the child and his mother and went to the land of Israel.
Mat 2:22 But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid
to go there, and being warned in a dream he withdrew to the district of Galilee.
Mat 2:23 And he went and lived in a city called Nazareth, that what was spoken by the prophets might be
fulfilled: "He shall be called a Nazarene."
Mat 3:1 In those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea,
Mat 3:2 "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand."
Mat 3:3 For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah when he said, "The voice of one crying in the
wilderness: Prepare the way of the Lord; make his paths straight."
Mat 3:4 Now John wore a garment of camel's hair and a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts
and wild honey.
Mat 3:5 Then Jerusalem and all Judea and all the region about the Jordan were going out to him,
Mat 3:6 and they were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.
Mat 3:7 But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for baptism, he said to them, "You
brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come?
Mat 3:8 Bear fruit in keeping with repentance.
Mat 3:9 And do not presume to say to yourselves, 'We have Abraham as our father,' for I tell you, God is able
from these stones to raise up children for Abraham.
Mat 3:10 Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not bear good fruit is
cut down and thrown into the fire.
Mat 3:11 "I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose
sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire.
Mat 3:12 His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor and gather his wheat into the
barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire."
Mat 3:13 Then Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to John, to be baptized by him.
Mat 3:14 John would have prevented him, saying, "I need to be baptized by you, and do you come to me?"
Mat 3:15 But Jesus answered him, "Let it be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness." Then
he consented.
Mat 3:16 And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were
opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him;
Mat 3:17 and behold, a voice from heaven said, "This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased."
Mat 4:1 Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil.
Mat 4:2 And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry.
Mat 4:3 And the tempter came and said to him, "If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become
loaves of bread."
Mat 4:4 But he answered, "It is written, "' Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from
the mouth of God.'"
Mat 4:5 Then the devil took him to the holy city and set him on the pinnacle of the temple
Mat 4:6 and said to him, "If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written, "' He will command his
angels concerning you,' and "'On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.'"
Mat 4:7 Jesus said to him, "Again it is written, 'You shall not put the Lord your God to the test.'"
Mat 4:8 Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and
their glory.
Mat 4:9 And he said to him, "All these I will give you, if you will fall down and worship me."
Mat 4:10 Then Jesus said to him, "Be gone, Satan! For it is written, "' You shall worship the Lord your God and
him only shall you serve.'"
Mat 4:11 Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and were ministering to him.
Mat 4:12 Now when he heard that John had been arrested, he withdrew into Galilee.Mat 4:13 And leaving Nazareth he went and lived in Capernaum by the sea, in the territory of Zebulun and
Naphtali,
Mat 4:14 so that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled:
Mat 4:15 "The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the
GentilesMat 4:16 the people dwelling in darkness have seen a great light, and for those dwelling in the region and
shadow of death, on them a light has dawned."
Mat 4:17 From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand."
Mat 4:18 While walking by the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon (who is called Peter) and Andrew his
brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen.
Mat 4:19 And he said to them, "Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men."
Mat 4:20 Immediately they left their nets and followed him.
Mat 4:21 And going on from there he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother,
in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and he called them.
Mat 4:22 Immediately they left the boat and their father and followed him.
Mat 4:23 And he went throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the
kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction among the people.
Mat 4:24 So his fame spread throughout all Syria, and they brought him all the sick, those afflicted with various
diseases and pains, those oppressed by demons, epileptics, and paralytics, and he healed them.
Mat 4:25 And great crowds followed him from Galilee and the Decapolis, and from Jerusalem and Judea, and
from beyond the Jordan.
Mat 5:1 Seeing the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and when he sat down, his disciples came to him.
Mat 5:2 And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying:
Mat 5:3 "Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Mat 5:4 "Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.
Mat 5:5 "Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth.
Mat 5:6 "Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied.
Mat 5:7 "Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy.
Mat 5:8 "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.
Mat 5:9 "Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God.
Mat 5:10 "Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Mat 5:11 "Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you
falsely on my account.
Mat 5:12 Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven, for so they persecuted the prophets who were
before you.
Mat 5:13 "You are the salt of the earth, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It is no
longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet.
Mat 5:14 "You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden.
Mat 5:15 Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand, and it gives light to all in the
house.
Mat 5:16 In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give
glory to your Father who is in heaven.
Mat 5:17 "Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but
to fulfill them.
Mat 5:18 For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law
until all is accomplished.
Mat 5:19 Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the
same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called
great in the kingdom of heaven.
Mat 5:20 For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never
enter the kingdom of heaven.
Mat 5:21 "You have heard that it was said to those of old, 'You shall not murder; and whoever murders will be
liable to judgment.'
Mat 5:22 But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable to judgment; whoever insults
his brother will be liable to the council; and whoever says, 'You fool!' will be liable to the hell of fire.
Mat 5:23 So if you are offering your gift at the altar and there remember that your brother has something against
you,
Mat 5:24 leave your gift there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and
offer your gift.Mat 5:25 Come to terms quickly with your accuser while you are going with him to court, lest your accuser hand
you over to the judge, and the judge to the guard, and you be put in prison.
Mat 5:26 Truly, I say to you, you will never get out until you have paid the last penny.
Mat 5:27 "You have heard that it was said, 'You shall not commit adultery.'
Mat 5:28 But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery
with her in his heart.
Mat 5:29 If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of
your members than that your whole body be thrown into hell.
Mat 5:30 And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of
your members than that your whole body go into hell.
Mat 5:31 "It was also said, 'Whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce.'
Mat 5:32 But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except on the ground of sexual immorality,
makes her commit adultery. And whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery.
Mat 5:33 "Again you have heard that it was said to those of old, 'You shall not swear falsely, but shall perform to
the Lord what you have sworn.'
Mat 5:34 But I say to you, Do not take an oath at all, either by heaven, for it is the throne of God,
Mat 5:35 or by the earth, for it is his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King.
Mat 5:36 And do not take an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black.
Mat 5:37 Let what you say be simply 'Yes' or 'No'; anything more than this comes from evil.
Mat 5:38 "You have heard that it was said, 'An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.'
Mat 5:39 But I say to you, Do not resist the one who is evil. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to
him the other also.
Mat 5:40 And if anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well.
Mat 5:41 And if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles.
Mat 5:42 Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you.
Mat 5:43 "You have heard that it was said, 'You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.'
Mat 5:44 But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you,
Mat 5:45 so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on
the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust.
Mat 5:46 For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the
same?
Mat 5:47 And if you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do
the same?
Mat 5:48 You therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.
Mat 6:1 "Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them, for then you
will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven.
Mat 6:2 "Thus, when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the
synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their
reward.
Mat 6:3 But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing,
Mat 6:4 so that your giving may be in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.
Mat 6:5 "And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites. For they love to stand and pray in the
synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received
their reward.
Mat 6:6 But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your Father who is in secret. And
your Father who sees in secret will reward you.
Mat 6:7 "And when you pray, do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do, for they think that they will be
heard for their many words.
Mat 6:8 Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him.
Mat 6:9 Pray then like this: "Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name.
Mat 6:10 Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven.
Mat 6:11 Give us this day our daily bread,
Mat 6:12 and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors.
Mat 6:13 And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.
Mat 6:14 For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you,
Mat 6:15 but if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
Mat 6:16 "And when you fast, do not look gloomy like the hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces that their
fasting may be seen by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.
Mat 6:17 But when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face,Mat 6:18 that your fasting may not be seen by others but by your Father who is in secret. And your Father who
sees in secret will reward you.
Mat 6:19 "Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy and where thieves
break in and steal,
Mat 6:20 but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and where thieves
do not break in and steal.
Mat 6:21 For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
Mat 6:22 "The eye is the lamp of the body. So, if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light,
Mat 6:23 but if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light in you is darkness, how
great is the darkness!
Mat 6:24 "No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted
to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money.
Mat 6:25 "Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor
about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing?
Mat 6:26 Look at the birds of the air: they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly
Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they?
Mat 6:27 And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his span of life?
Mat 6:28 And why are you anxious about clothing? Con sider the lilies of the field, how they grow: they neither
toil nor spin,
Mat 6:29 yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
Mat 6:30 But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven,
will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith?
Mat 6:31 Therefore do not be anxious, saying, 'What shall we eat?' or 'What shall we drink?' or 'What shall we
wear?'
Mat 6:32 For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all.
Mat 6:33 But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you.
Mat 6:34 "Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the
day is its own trouble.
Mat 7:1 "Judge not, that you be not judged.
Mat 7:2 For with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be
measured to you.
Mat 7:3 Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own
eye?
Mat 7:4 Or how can you say to your brother, 'Let me take the speck out of your eye,' when there is the log in
your own eye?
Mat 7:5 You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out
of your brother's eye.
Mat 7:6 "Do not give dogs what is holy, and do not throw your pearls before pigs, lest they trample them
underfoot and turn to attack you.
Mat 7:7 "Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.
Mat 7:8 For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be
opened.
Mat 7:9 Or which one of you, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone?
Mat 7:10 Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent?
Mat 7:11 If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father
who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him!
Mat 7:12 "So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them, for this is the Law and the
Prophets.
Mat 7:13 "Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and
those who enter by it are many.
Mat 7:14 For the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few.
Mat 7:15 "Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves.
Mat 7:16 You will recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes, or figs from thistles?
Mat 7:17 So, every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit.
Mat 7:18 A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit.
Mat 7:19 Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
Mat 7:20 Thus you will recognize them by their fruits.
Mat 7:21 "Not everyone who says to me, 'Lord, Lord,' will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does
the will of my Father who is in heaven.Mat 7:22 On that day many will say to me, 'Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons
in your name, and do many mighty works in your name?'
Mat 7:23 And then will I declare to them, 'I never knew you; depart from me, you workers of lawlessness.'
Mat 7:24 "Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his
house on the rock.
Mat 7:25 And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did not fall,
because it had been founded on the rock.
Mat 7:26 And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who
built his house on the sand.
Mat 7:27 And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell, and
great was the fall of it."
Mat 7:28 And when Jesus finished these sayings, the crowds were astonished at his teaching,
Mat 7:29 for he was teaching them as one who had authority, and not as their scribes.
Mat 8:1 When he came down from the mountain, great crowds followed him.
Mat 8:2 And behold, a leper came to him and knelt before him, saying, "Lord, if you will, you can make me
clean."
Mat 8:3 And Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, "I will; be clean." And immediately his
leprosy was cleansed.
Mat 8:4 And Jesus said to him, "See that you say nothing to anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest and
offer the gift that Moses commanded, for a proof to them."
Mat 8:5 When he entered Capernaum, a centurion came forward to him, appealing to him,
Mat 8:6 "Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, suffering terribly."
Mat 8:7 And he said to him, "I will come and heal him."
Mat 8:8 But the centurion replied, "Lord, I am not worthy to have you come under my roof, but only say the
word, and my servant will be healed.
Mat 8:9 For I too am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. And I say to one, 'Go,' and he goes, and to
another, 'Come,' and he comes, and to my servant, 'Do this,' and he does it."
Mat 8:10 When Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who followed him, "Truly, I tell you, with no one
in Israel have I found such faith.
Mat 8:11 I tell you, many will come from east and west and recline at table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in
the kingdom of heaven,
Mat 8:12 while the sons of the kingdom will be thrown into the outer darkness. In that place there will be
weeping and gnashing of teeth."
Mat 8:13 And to the centurion Jesus said, "Go; let it be done for you as you have believed." And the servant
was healed at that very moment.
Mat 8:14 And when Jesus entered Peter's house, he saw his mother-in-law lying sick with a fever.
Mat 8:15 He touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she rose and began to serve him.
Mat 8:16 That evening they brought to him many who were oppressed by demons, and he cast out the spirits
with a word and healed all who were sick.
Mat 8:17 This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah: "He took our illnesses and bore our
diseases."
Mat 8:18 Now when Jesus saw a great crowd around him, he gave orders to go over to the other side.
Mat 8:19 And a scribe came up and said to him, "Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go."
Mat 8:20 And Jesus said to him, "Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has
nowhere to lay his head."
Mat 8:21 Another of the disciples said to him, "Lord, let me first go and bury my father."
Mat 8:22 And Jesus said to him, "Follow me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead."
Mat 8:23 And when he got into the boat, his disciples followed him.
Mat 8:24 And behold, there arose a great storm on the sea, so that the boat was being swamped by the waves;
but he was asleep.
Mat 8:25 And they went and woke him, saying, "Save us, Lord; we are perishing."
Mat 8:26 And he said to them, "Why are you afraid, O you of little faith?" Then he rose and rebuked the winds
and the sea, and there was a great calm.
Mat 8:27 And the men marveled, saying, "What sort of man is this, that even winds and sea obey him?"
Mat 8:28 And when he came to the other side, to the country of the Gadarenes, two demon-possessed men met
him, coming out of the tombs, so fierce that no one could pass that way.
Mat 8:29 And behold, they cried out, "What have you to do with us, O Son of God? Have you come here to
torment us before the time?"
Mat 8:30 Now a herd of many pigs was feeding at some distance from them.Mat 8:31 And the demons begged him, saying, "If you cast us out, send us away into the herd of pigs."
Mat 8:32 And he said to them, "Go." So they came out and went into the pigs, and behold, the whole herd
rushed down the steep bank into the sea and drowned in the waters.
Mat 8:33 The herdsmen fled, and going into the city they told everything, especially what had happened to the
demon-possessed men.
Mat 8:34 And behold, all the city came out to meet Jesus, and when they saw him, they begged him to leave
their region.
Mat 9:1 And getting into a boat he crossed over and came to his own city.
Mat 9:2 And behold, some people brought to him a paralytic, lying on a bed. And when Jesus saw their faith, he
said to the paralytic, "Take heart, my son; your sins are forgiven."
Mat 9:3 And behold, some of the scribes said to themselves, "This man is blaspheming."
Mat 9:4 But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, "Why do you think evil in your hearts?
Mat 9:5 For which is easier, to say, 'Your sins are forgiven,' or to say, 'Rise and walk'?
Mat 9:6 But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins"- he then said to the
paralytic- "Rise, pick up your bed and go home."
Mat 9:7 And he rose and went home.
Mat 9:8 When the crowds saw it, they were afraid, and they glorified God, who had given such authority to men.
Mat 9:9 As Jesus passed on from there, he saw a man called Matthew sitting at the tax booth, and he said to
him, "Follow me." And he rose and followed him.
Mat 9:10 And as Jesus reclined at table in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and were
reclining with Jesus and his disciples.
Mat 9:11 And when the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, "Why does your teach er eat with tax
collectors and sinners?"
Mat 9:12 But when he heard it, he said, "Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are
sick.
Mat 9:13 Go and learn what this means, 'I desire mercy, and not sacrifice.' For I came not to call the righteous,
but sinners."
Mat 9:14 Then the disciples of John came to him, saying, "Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples
do not fast?"
Mat 9:15 And Jesus said to them, "Can the wedding guests mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? The
days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast.
Mat 9:16 No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch tears away from the garment,
and a worse tear is made.
Mat 9:17 Neither is new wine put into old wineskins. If it is, the skins burst and the wine is spilled and the skins
are destroyed. But new wine is put into fresh wineskins, and so both are preserved."
Mat 9:18 While he was saying these things to them, behold, a ruler came in and knelt before him, saying, "My
daughter has just died, but come and lay your hand on her, and she will live."
Mat 9:19 And Jesus rose and followed him, with his disciples.
Mat 9:20 And behold, a woman who had suffered from a discharge of blood for twelve years came up behind
him and touched the fringe of his garment,
Mat 9:21 for she said to herself, "If I only touch his garment, I will be made well."
Mat 9:22 Jesus turned, and seeing her he said, "Take heart, daughter; your faith has made you well." And
instantly the woman was made well.
Mat 9:23 And when Jesus came to the ruler's house and saw the flute players and the crowd making a
commotion,
Mat 9:24 he said, "Go away, for the girl is not dead but sleeping." And they laughed at him.
Mat 9:25 But when the crowd had been put outside, he went in and took her by the hand, and the girl arose.
Mat 9:26 And the report of this went through all that district.
Mat 9:27 And as Jesus passed on from there, two blind men followed him, crying aloud, "Have mercy on us,
Son of David."
Mat 9:28 When he entered the house, the blind men came to him, and Jesus said to them, "Do you believe that
I am able to do this?" They said to him, "Yes, Lord."
Mat 9:29 Then he touched their eyes, saying, "According to your faith be it done to you."
Mat 9:30 And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly warned them, "See that no one knows about it."
Mat 9:31 But they went away and spread his fame through all that district.
Mat 9:32 As they were going away, behold, a demon-oppressed man who was mute was brought to him.
Mat 9:33 And when the demon had been cast out, the mute man spoke. And the crowds marveled, saying,
"Never was anything like this seen in Israel."
Mat 9:34 But the Pharisees said, "He casts out demons by the prince of demons."Mat 9:35 And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming
the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction.
Mat 9:36 When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them, because they were harassed and helpless,
like sheep without a shepherd.
Mat 9:37 Then he said to his disciples, "The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few;
Mat 9:38 therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest."
Mat 10:1 And he called to him his twelve disciples and gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them
out, and to heal every disease and every affliction.
Mat 10:2 The names of the twelve apostles are these: first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother;
James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother;
Mat 10:3 Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas and Matthew the tax collector; James the son of Alphaeus, and
Thaddaeus;
Mat 10:4 Simon the Cananaean, and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him.
Mat 10:5 These twelve Jesus sent out, instructing them, "Go nowhere among the Gentiles and enter no town of
the Samaritans,
Mat 10:6 but go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
Mat 10:7 And proclaim as you go, saying, 'The kingdom of heaven is at hand.'
Mat 10:8 Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons. You received without paying; give
without pay.
Mat 10:9 Acquire no gold nor silver nor copper for your belts,
Mat 10:10 no bag for your journey, nor two tunics nor sandals nor a staff, for the laborer deserves his food.
Mat 10:11 And whatever town or village you enter, find out who is worthy in it and stay there until you depart.
Mat 10:12 As you enter the house, greet it.
Mat 10:13 And if the house is worthy, let your peace come upon it, but if it is not worthy, let your peace return to
you.
Mat 10:14 And if anyone will not receive you or listen to your words, shake off the dust from your feet when you
leave that house or town.
Mat 10:15 Truly, I say to you, it will be more bearable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom and
Gomorrah than for that town.
Mat 10:16 "Behold, I am sending you out as sheep in the midst of wolves, so be wise as serpents and innocent
as doves.
Mat 10:17 Beware of men, for they will deliver you over to courts and flog you in their synagogues,
Mat 10:18 and you will be dragged before governors and kings for my sake, to bear witness before them and
the Gentiles.
Mat 10:19 When they deliver you over, do not be anxious how you are to speak or what you are to say, for what
you are to say will be given to you in that hour.
Mat 10:20 For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father speaking through you.
Mat 10:21 Brother will deliver brother over to death, and the father his child, and children will rise against
parents and have them put to death,
Mat 10:22 and you will be hated by all for my name's sake. But the one who endures to the end will be saved.
Mat 10:23 When they persecute you in one town, flee to the next, for truly, I say to you, you will not have gone
through all the towns of Israel before the Son of Man comes.
Mat 10:24 "A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master.
Mat 10:25 It is enough for the disciple to be like his teacher, and the servant like his master. If they have called
the master of the house Beelzebul, how much more will they malign those of his household.
Mat 10:26 "So have no fear of them, for nothing is covered that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be
known.
Mat 10:27 What I tell you in the dark, say in the light, and what you hear whispered, proclaim on the housetops.
Mat 10:28 And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both
soul and body in hell.
Mat 10:29 Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your
Father.
Mat 10:30 But even the hairs of your head are all numbered.
Mat 10:31 Fear not, therefore; you are of more value than many sparrows.
Mat 10:32 So everyone who acknowledges me before men, I also will acknowledge before my Father who is in
heaven,
Mat 10:33 but whoever denies me before men, I also will deny before my Father who is in heaven.
Mat 10:34 "Do not think that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have not come to bring peace, but a
sword.Mat 10:35 For I have come to set a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughterin-law against her mother-in-law.
Mat 10:36 And a person's enemies will be those of his own household.
Mat 10:37 Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and whoever loves son or
daughter more than me is not worthy of me.
Mat 10:38 And whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me.
Mat 10:39 Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.
Mat 10:40 "Whoever receives you receives me, and whoever receives me receives him who sent me.
Mat 10:41 The one who receives a prophet because he is a prophet will receive a prophet's reward, and the one
who receives a righteous person because he is a righteous person will receive a righteous person's reward.
Mat 10:42 And whoever gives one of these little ones even a cup of cold water because he is a disciple, truly, I
say to you, he will by no means lose his reward."
Mat 11:1 When Jesus had finished instructing his twelve disciples, he went on from there to teach and preach in
their cities.
Mat 11:2 Now when John heard in prison about the deeds of the Christ, he sent word by his disciples
Mat 11:3 and said to him, "Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another?"
Mat 11:4 And Jesus answered them, "Go and tell John what you hear and see:
Mat 11:5 the blind receive their sight and the lame walk, lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear, and the dead
are raised up, and the poor have good news preached to them.
Mat 11:6 And blessed is the one who is not offended by me."
Mat 11:7 As they went away, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John: "What did you go out into
the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind?
Mat 11:8 What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who wear soft
clothing are in kings' houses.
Mat 11:9 What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.
Mat 11:10 This is he of whom it is written, "' Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare
your way before you.'
Mat 11:11 Truly, I say to you, among those born of women there has arisen no one greater than John the
Baptist. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he.
Mat 11:12 From the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven has suffered violence, and the
violent take it by force.
Mat 11:13 For all the Prophets and the Law prophesied until John,
Mat 11:14 and if you are willing to accept it, he is Elijah who is to come.
Mat 11:15 He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
Mat 11:16 "But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplaces and calling
to their playmates,
Mat 11:17 "'We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we sang a dirge, and you did not mourn.'
Mat 11:18 For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, 'He has a demon.'
Mat 11:19 The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, 'Look at him! A glutton and a drunkard, a
friend of tax collectors and sinners!' Yet wisdom is justified by her deeds."
Mat 11:20 Then he began to denounce the cities where most of his mighty works had been done, because they
did not repent.
Mat 11:21 "Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works done in you had been done in
Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.
Mat 11:22 But I tell you, it will be more bearable on the day of judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you.
Mat 11:23 And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You will be brought down to Hades. For if the
mighty works done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day.
Mat 11:24 But I tell you that it will be more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for you."
Mat 11:25 At that time Jesus declared, "I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden
these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children;
Mat 11:26 yes, Father, for such was your gracious will.
Mat 11:27 All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father,
and no one knows the Father except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him.
Mat 11:28 Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
Mat 11:29 Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest
for your souls.
Mat 11:30 For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light."
Mat 12:1 At that time Jesus went through the grainfields on the Sabbath. His disciples were hungry, and they
began to pluck heads of grain and to eat.Mat 12:2 But when the Pharisees saw it, they said to him, "Look, your disciples are doing what is not lawful to
do on the Sabbath."
Mat 12:3 He said to them, "Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, and those who were with
him:
Mat 12:4 how he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the Presence, which it was not lawful for him to
eat nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests?
Mat 12:5 Or have you not read in the Law how on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath
and are guiltless?
Mat 12:6 I tell you, something greater than the temple is here.
Mat 12:7 And if you had known what this means, 'I desire mercy, and not sacrifice,' you would not have
condemned the guiltless.
Mat 12:8 For the Son of Man is lord of the Sabbath."
Mat 12:9 He went on from there and entered their synagogue.
Mat 12:10 And a man was there with a withered hand. And they asked him, "Is it lawful to heal on the
Sabbath?"- so that they might accuse him.
Mat 12:11 He said to them, "Which one of you who has a sheep, if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take
hold of it and lift it out?
Mat 12:12 Of how much more value is a man than a sheep! So it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath."
Mat 12:13 Then he said to the man, "Stretch out your hand." And the man stretched it out, and it was restored,
healthy like the other.
Mat 12:14 But the Pharisees went out and conspired against him, how to destroy him.
Mat 12:15 Jesus, aware of this, withdrew from there. And many followed him, and he healed them all
Mat 12:16 and ordered them not to make him known.
Mat 12:17 This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah:
Mat 12:18 "Behold, my servant whom I have chosen, my beloved with whom my soul is well pleased. I will put
my Spirit upon him, and he will proclaim justice to the Gentiles.
Mat 12:19 He will not quarrel or cry aloud, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets;
Mat 12:20 a bruised reed he will not break, and a smoldering wick he will not quench, until he brings justice to
victory;
Mat 12:21 and in his name the Gentiles will hope."
Mat 12:22 Then a demon-oppressed man who was blind and mute was brought to him, and he healed him, so
that the man spoke and saw.
Mat 12:23 And all the people were amazed, and said, "Can this be the Son of David?"
Mat 12:24 But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, "It is only by Beelzebul, the prince of demons, that this
man casts out demons."
Mat 12:25 Knowing their thoughts, he said to them, "Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and no
city or house divided against itself will stand.
Mat 12:26 And if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand?
Mat 12:27 And if I cast out demons by Beelzebul, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be
your judges.
Mat 12:28 But if it is by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
Mat 12:29 Or how can someone enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods, unless he first binds the
strong man? Then indeed he may plunder his house.
Mat 12:30 Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters.
Mat 12:31 Therefore I tell you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven people, but the blasphemy against the
Spirit will not be forgiven.
Mat 12:32 And whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but whoever speaks against the
Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come.
Mat 12:33 "Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad, for the tree is
known by its fruit.
Mat 12:34 You brood of vipers! How can you speak good, when you are evil? For out of the abundance of the
heart the mouth speaks.
Mat 12:35 The good person out of his good treasure brings forth good, and the evil person out of his evil
treasure brings forth evil.
Mat 12:36 I tell you, on the day of judgment people will give account for every careless word they speak,
Mat 12:37 for by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned."
Mat 12:38 Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered him, saying, "Teacher, we wish to see a sign from
you."
Mat 12:39 But he answered them, "An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be givento it except the sign of the prophet Jonah.
Mat 12:40 For just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man
be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.
Mat 12:41 The men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, for they
repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here.
Mat 12:42 The queen of the South will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, for she
came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something greater than Solomon is
here.
Mat 12:43 "When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it passes through waterless places seeking rest,
but finds none.
Mat 12:44 Then it says, 'I will return to my house from which I came.' And when it comes, it finds the house
empty, swept, and put in order.
Mat 12:45 Then it goes and brings with it seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there,
and the last state of that person is worse than the first. So also will it be with this evil generation."
Mat 12:46 While he was still speaking to the people, behold, his mother and his brothers stood outside, asking
to speak to him.
Mat 12:47
Mat 12:48 But he replied to the man who told him, "Who is my mother, and who are my brothers?"
Mat 12:49 And stretching out his hand toward his disciples, he said, "Here are my mother and my brothers!
Mat 12:50 For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother."
Mat 13:1 That same day Jesus went out of the house and sat beside the sea.
Mat 13:2 And great crowds gathered about him, so that he got into a boat and sat down. And the whole crowd
stood on the beach.
Mat 13:3 And he told them many things in parables, saying: "A sower went out to sow.
Mat 13:4 And as he sowed, some seeds fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured them.
Mat 13:5 Other seeds fell on rocky ground, where they did not have much soil, and immediately they sprang up,
since they had no depth of soil,
Mat 13:6 but when the sun rose they were scorched. And since they had no root, they withered away.
Mat 13:7 Other seeds fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked them.
Mat 13:8 Other seeds fell on good soil and produced grain, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty.
Mat 13:9 He who has ears, let him hear."
Mat 13:10 Then the disciples came and said to him, "Why do you speak to them in parables?"
Mat 13:11 And he answered them, "To you it has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of heaven, but
to them it has not been given.
Mat 13:12 For to the one who has, more will be given, and he will have an abundance, but from the one who
has not, even what he has will be taken away.
Mat 13:13 This is why I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not
hear, nor do they understand.
Mat 13:14 Indeed, in their case the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled that says: "' You will indeed hear but never
understand, and you will indeed see but never perceive.
Mat 13:15 For this people's heart has grown dull, and with their ears they can barely hear, and their eyes they
have closed, lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their heart and
turn, and I would heal them.'
Mat 13:16 But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear.
Mat 13:17 Truly, I say to you, many prophets and righteous people longed to see what you see, and did not see
it, and to hear what you hear, and did not hear it.
Mat 13:18 "Hear then the parable of the sower:
Mat 13:19 When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and
snatches away what has been sown in his heart. This is what was sown along the path.
Mat 13:20 As for what was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives
it with joy,
Mat 13:21 yet he has no root in himself, but endures for a while, and when tribulation or persecution arises on
account of the word, immediately he falls away.
Mat 13:22 As for what was sown among thorns, this is the one who hears the word, but the cares of the world
and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and it proves unfruitful.
Mat 13:23 As for what was sown on good soil, this is the one who hears the word and understands it. He indeed
bears fruit and yields, in one case a hundredfold, in another sixty, and in another thirty."
Mat 13:24 He put another parable before them, saying, "The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man
who sowed good seed in his field,Mat 13:25 but while his men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed weeds among the wheat and went
away.
Mat 13:26 So when the plants came up and bore grain, then the weeds appeared also.
Mat 13:27 And the servants of the master of the house came and said to him, 'Master, did you not sow good
seed in your field? How then does it have weeds?'
Mat 13:28 He said to them, 'An enemy has done this.' So the servants said to him, 'Then do you want us to go
and gather them?'
Mat 13:29 But he said, 'No, lest in gathering the weeds you root up the wheat along with them.
Mat 13:30 Let both grow together until the harvest, and at harvest time I will tell the reapers, Gather the weeds
first and bind them in bundles to be burned, but gather the wheat into my barn.'"
Mat 13:31 He put another parable before them, saying, "The kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed
that a man took and sowed in his field.
Mat 13:32 It is the smallest of all seeds, but when it has grown it is larger than all the garden plants and
becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and make nests in its branches."
Mat 13:33 He told them another parable. "The kingdom of heaven is like leaven that a woman took and hid in
three measures of flour, till it was all leavened."
Mat 13:34 All these things Jesus said to the crowds in parables; indeed, he said nothing to them without a
parable.
Mat 13:35 This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet: "I will open my mouth in parables; I will utter what
has been hidden since the foundation of the world."
Mat 13:36 Then he left the crowds and went into the house. And his disciples came to him, saying, "Explain to
us the parable of the weeds of the field."
Mat 13:37 He answered, "The one who sows the good seed is the Son of Man.
Mat 13:38 The field is the world, and the good seed is the children of the kingdom. The weeds are the sons of
the evil one,
Mat 13:39 and the enemy who sowed them is the devil. The harvest is the close of the age, and the reapers are
angels.
Mat 13:40 Just as the weeds are gathered and burned with fire, so will it be at the close of the age.
Mat 13:41 The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all causes of sin and all
law-breakers,
Mat 13:42 and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Mat 13:43 Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their Father. He who has ears, let him
hear.
Mat 13:44 "The kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field, which a man found and covered up. Then in
his joy he goes and sells all that he has and buys that field.
Mat 13:45 "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls,
Mat 13:46 who, on finding one pearl of great value, went and sold all that he had and bought it.
Mat 13:47 "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net that was thrown into the sea and gathered fish of every
kind.
Mat 13:48 When it was full, men drew it ashore and sat down and sorted the good into containers but threw
away the bad.
Mat 13:49 So it will be at the close of the age. The angels will come out and separate the evil from the righteous
Mat 13:50 and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Mat 13:51 "Have you understood all these things?" They said to him, "Yes."
Mat 13:52 And he said to them, "Therefore every scribe who has been trained for the kingdom of heaven is like
a master of a house, who brings out of his treasure what is new and what is old."
Mat 13:53 And when Jesus had finished these parables, he went away from there,
Mat 13:54 and coming to his hometown he taught them in their synagogue, so that they were astonished, and
said, "Where did this man get this wisdom and these mighty works?
Mat 13:55 Is not this the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary? And are not his brothers James and
Joseph and Simon and Judas?
Mat 13:56 And are not all his sisters with us? Where then did this man get all these things?"
Mat 13:57 And they took offense at him. But Jesus said to them, "A prophet is not without honor except in his
hometown and in his own household."
Mat 13:58 And he did not do many mighty works there, because of their unbelief.
Mat 14:1 At that time Herod the tetrarch heard about the fame of Jesus,
Mat 14:2 and he said to his servants, "This is John the Baptist. He has been raised from the dead; that is why
these miraculous powers are at work in him."
Mat 14:3 For Herod had seized John and bound him and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brotherPhilip's wife,
Mat 14:4 because John had been saying to him, "It is not lawful for you to have her."
Mat 14:5 And though he wanted to put him to death, he feared the people, because they held him to be a
prophet.
Mat 14:6 But when Herod's birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced before the company and pleased
Herod,
Mat 14:7 so that he promised with an oath to give her whatever she might ask.
Mat 14:8 Prompted by her mother, she said, "Give me the head of John the Baptist here on a platter."
Mat 14:9 And the king was sorry, but because of his oaths and his guests he commanded it to be given.
Mat 14:10 He sent and had John beheaded in the prison,
Mat 14:11 and his head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother.
Mat 14:12 And his disciples came and took the body and buried it, and they went and told Jesus.
Mat 14:13 Now when Jesus heard this, he withdrew from there in a boat to a desolate place by himself. But
when the crowds heard it, they followed him on foot from the towns.
Mat 14:14 When he went ashore he saw a great crowd, and he had compassion on them and healed their sick.
Mat 14:15 Now when it was evening, the disciples came to him and said, "This is a desolate place, and the day
is now over; send the crowds away to go into the villages and buy food for themselves."
Mat 14:16 But Jesus said, "They need not go away; you give them something to eat."
Mat 14:17 They said to him, "We have only five loaves here and two fish."
Mat 14:18 And he said, "Bring them here to me."
Mat 14:19 Then he ordered the crowds to sit down on the grass, and taking the five loaves and the two fish, he
looked up to heaven and said a blessing. Then he broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples, and the
disciples gave them to the crowds.
Mat 14:20 And they all ate and were satisfied. And they took up twelve baskets full of the broken pieces left
over.
Mat 14:21 And those who ate were about five thousand men, besides women and children.
Mat 14:22 Immediately he made the disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side, while he
dismissed the crowds.
Mat 14:23 And after he had dismissed the crowds, he went up on the mountain by himself to pray. When
evening came, he was there alone,
Mat 14:24 but the boat by this time was a long way from the land, beaten by the waves, for the wind was against
them.
Mat 14:25 And in the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea.
Mat 14:26 But when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were terrified, and said, "It is a ghost!" and
they cried out in fear.
Mat 14:27 But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, "Take heart; it is I. Do not be afraid."
Mat 14:28 And Peter answered him, "Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you on the water."
Mat 14:29 He said, "Come." So Peter got out of the boat and walked on the water and came to Jesus.
Mat 14:30 But when he saw the wind, he was afraid, and beginning to sink he cried out, "Lord, save me."
Mat 14:31 Jesus immediately reached out his hand and took hold of him, saying to him, "O you of little faith, why
did you doubt?"
Mat 14:32 And when they got into the boat, the wind ceased.
Mat 14:33 And those in the boat worshiped him, saying, "Truly you are the Son of God."
Mat 14:34 And when they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret.
Mat 14:35 And when the men of that place recognized him, they sent around to all that region and brought to
him all who were sick
Mat 14:36 and implored him that they might only touch the fringe of his garment. And as many as touched it
were made well.
Mat 15:1 Then Pharisees and scribes came to Jesus from Jerusalem and said,
Mat 15:2 "Why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they
eat."
Mat 15:3 He answered them, "And why do you break the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition?
Mat 15:4 For God commanded, 'Honor your father and your mother,' and, 'Who ever reviles father or mother
must surely die.'
Mat 15:5 But you say, 'If anyone tells his father or his mother, What you would have gained from me is given to
God,
Mat 15:6 he need not honor his father.' So for the sake of your tradition you have made void the word of God.
Mat 15:7 You hypocrites! Well did Isaiah prophesy of you, when he said:
Mat 15:8 "'This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me;Mat 15:9 in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.'"
Mat 15:10 And he called the people to him and said to them, "Hear and understand:
Mat 15:11 it is not what goes into the mouth that defiles a person, but what comes out of the mouth; this defiles
a person."
Mat 15:12 Then the disciples came and said to him, "Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when they
heard this saying?"
Mat 15:13 He answered, "Every plant that my heavenly Father has not planted will be rooted up.
Mat 15:14 Let them alone; they are blind guides. And if the blind lead the blind, both will fall into a pit."
Mat 15:15 But Peter said to him, "Explain the parable to us."
Mat 15:16 And he said, "Are you also still without understanding?
Mat 15:17 Do you not see that whatever goes into the mouth passes into the stomach and is expelled?
Mat 15:18 But what comes out of the mouth proceeds from the heart, and this defiles a person.
Mat 15:19 For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness,
slander.
Mat 15:20 These are what defile a person. But to eat with unwashed hands does not defile anyone."
Mat 15:21 And Jesus went away from there and withdrew to the district of Tyre and Sidon.
Mat 15:22 And behold, a Canaanite woman from that region came out and was crying, "Have mercy on me, O
Lord, Son of David; my daughter is severely oppressed by a demon."
Mat 15:23 But he did not answer her a word. And his disciples came and begged him, saying, "Send her away,
for she is crying out after us."
Mat 15:24 He answered, "I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel."
Mat 15:25 But she came and knelt before him, saying, "Lord, help me."
Mat 15:26 And he answered, "It is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs."
Mat 15:27 She said, "Yes, Lord, yet even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their masters' table."
Mat 15:28 Then Jesus answered her, "O woman, great is your faith! Be it done for you as you desire." And her
daughter was healed instantly.
Mat 15:29 Jesus went on from there and walked beside the Sea of Galilee. And he went up on the mountain
and sat down there.
Mat 15:30 And great crowds came to him, bringing with them the lame, the blind, the crippled, the mute, and
many others, and they put them at his feet, and he healed them,
Mat 15:31 so that the crowd wondered, when they saw the mute speaking, the crippled healthy, the lame
walking, and the blind seeing. And they glorified the God of Israel.
Mat 15:32 Then Jesus called his disciples to him and said, "I have compassion on the crowd because they have
been with me now three days and have nothing to eat. And I am unwilling to send them away hungry, lest they
faint on the way."
Mat 15:33 And the disciples said to him, "Where are we to get enough bread in such a desolate place to feed so
great a crowd?"
Mat 15:34 And Jesus said to them, "How many loaves do you have?" They said, "Seven, and a few small fish."
Mat 15:35 And directing the crowd to sit down on the ground,
Mat 15:36 he took the seven loaves and the fish, and having given thanks he broke them and gave them to the
disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds.
Mat 15:37 And they all ate and were satisfied. And they took up seven baskets full of the broken pieces left
over.
Mat 15:38 Those who ate were four thousand men, besides women and children.
Mat 15:39 And after sending away the crowds, he got into the boat and went to the region of Magadan.
Mat 16:1 And the Pharisees and Sadducees came, and to test him they asked him to show them a sign from
heaven.
Mat 16:2 He answered them, "When it is evening, you say, 'It will be fair weather, for the sky is red.'
Mat 16:3 And in the morning, 'It will be stormy today, for the sky is red and threatening.' You know how to
interpret the appearance of the sky, but you cannot interpret the signs of the times.
Mat 16:4 An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of
Jonah." So he left them and departed.
Mat 16:5 When the disciples reached the other side, they had forgotten to bring any bread.
Mat 16:6 Jesus said to them, "Watch and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees."
Mat 16:7 And they began discussing it among themselves, saying, "We brought no bread."
Mat 16:8 But Jesus, aware of this, said, "O you of little faith, why are you discussing among yourselves the fact
that you have no bread?
Mat 16:9 Do you not yet perceive? Do you not remember the five loaves for the five thousand, and how many
baskets you gathered?Mat 16:10 Or the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how many baskets you gathered?
Mat 16:11 How is it that you fail to understand that I did not speak about bread? Beware of the leaven of the
Pharisees and Sadducees."
Mat 16:12 Then they understood that he did not tell them to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the teaching
of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
Mat 16:13 Now when Jesus came into the district of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, "Who do people
say that the Son of Man is?"
Mat 16:14 And they said, "Some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and others Jeremiah or one of the
prophets."
Mat 16:15 He said to them, "But who do you say that I am?"
Mat 16:16 Simon Peter replied, "You are the Christ, the Son of the living God."
Mat 16:17 And Jesus answered him, "Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jonah! For flesh and blood has not revealed
this to you, but my Father who is in heaven.
Mat 16:18 And I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not
prevail against it.
Mat 16:19 I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in
heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven."
Mat 16:20 Then he strictly charged the disciples to tell no one that he was the Christ.
Mat 16:21 From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many
things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised.
Mat 16:22 And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, "Far be it from you, Lord! This shall never
happen to you."
Mat 16:23 But he turned and said to Peter, "Get behind me, Satan! You are a hindrance to me. For you are not
setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man."
Mat 16:24 Then Jesus told his disciples, "If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his
cross and follow me.
Mat 16:25 For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.
Mat 16:26 For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his life? Or what shall a man give
in return for his life?
Mat 16:27 For the Son of Man is going to come with his angels in the glory of his Father, and then he will repay
each person according to what he has done.
Mat 16:28 Truly, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the Son of
Man coming in his kingdom."
Mat 17:1 And after six days Jesus took with him Peter and James, and John his brother, and led them up a high
mountain by themselves.
Mat 17:2 And he was transfigured before them, and his face shone like the sun, and his clothes became white
as light.
Mat 17:3 And behold, there appeared to them Moses and Elijah, talking with him.
Mat 17:4 And Peter said to Jesus, "Lord, it is good that we are here. If you wish, I will make three tents here,
one for you and one for Moses and one for Elijah."
Mat 17:5 He was still speaking when, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice from the cloud
said, "This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased; listen to him."
Mat 17:6 When the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces and were terrified.
Mat 17:7 But Jesus came and touched them, saying, "Rise, and have no fear."
Mat 17:8 And when they lifted up their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus only.
Mat 17:9 And as they were coming down the mountain, Jesus commanded them, "Tell no one the vision, until
the Son of Man is raised from the dead."
Mat 17:10 And the disciples asked him, "Then why do the scribes say that first Elijah must come?"
Mat 17:11 He answered, "Elijah does come, and he will restore all things.
Mat 17:12 But I tell you that Elijah has already come, and they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever
they pleased. So also the Son of Man will certainly suffer at their hands."
Mat 17:13 Then the disciples understood that he was speaking to them of John the Baptist.
Mat 17:14 And when they came to the crowd, a man came up to him and, kneeling before him,
Mat 17:15 said, "Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is an epileptic and he suffers terribly. For often he falls into
the fire, and often into the water.
Mat 17:16 And I brought him to your disciples, and they could not heal him."
Mat 17:17 And Jesus answered, "O faithless and twisted generation, how long am I to be with you? How long
am I to bear with you? Bring him here to me."
Mat 17:18 And Jesus rebuked him, and the demon came out of him, and the boy was healed instantly.Mat 17:19 Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, "Why could we not cast it out?"
Mat 17:20 He said to them, "Because of your little faith. For truly, I say to you, if you have faith like a grain of
mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, 'Move from here to there,' and it will move, and nothing will be
impossible for you."
Mat 17:21
Mat 17:22 As they were gathering in Galilee, Jesus said to them, "The Son of Man is about to be delivered into
the hands of men,
Mat 17:23 and they will kill him, and he will be raised on the third day." And they were greatly distressed.
Mat 17:24 When they came to Capernaum, the collectors of the half-shekel tax went up to Peter and said,
"Does your teacher not pay the tax?"
Mat 17:25 He said, "Yes." And when he came into the house, Jesus spoke to him first, saying, "What do you
think, Simon? From whom do kings of the earth take toll or tax? From their sons or from others?"
Mat 17:26 And when he said, "From others," Jesus said to him, "Then the sons are free.
Mat 17:27 However, not to give offense to them, go to the sea and cast a hook and take the first fish that comes
up, and when you open its mouth you will find a shekel. Take that and give it to them for me and for yourself."
Mat 18:1 At that time the disciples came to Jesus, saying, "Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?"
Mat 18:2 And calling to him a child, he put him in the midst of them
Mat 18:3 and said, "Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the
kingdom of heaven.
Mat 18:4 Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.
Mat 18:5 "Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me,
Mat 18:6 but whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to have
a great millstone fastened around his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea.
Mat 18:7 "Woe to the world for temptations to sin! For it is necessary that temptations come, but woe to the one
by whom the temptation comes!
Mat 18:8 And if your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to enter
life crippled or lame than with two hands or two feet to be thrown into the eternal fire.
Mat 18:9 And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life with one
eye than with two eyes to be thrown into the hell of fire.
Mat 18:10 "See that you do not despise one of these little ones. For I tell you that in heaven their angels always
see the face of my Father who is in heaven.
Mat 18:11
Mat 18:12 What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep and one of them has gone astray, does he not
leave the ninety-nine on the mountains and go in search of the one that went astray?
Mat 18:13 And if he finds it, truly, I say to you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine that never went
astray.
Mat 18:14 So it is not the will of my Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish.
Mat 18:15 "If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault, between you and him alone. If he listens to
you, you have gained your brother.
Mat 18:16 But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established
by the evidence of two or three witnesses.
Mat 18:17 If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let
him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector.
Mat 18:18 Truly, I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on
earth shall be loosed in heaven.
Mat 18:19 Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by
my Father in heaven.
Mat 18:20 For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I among them."
Mat 18:21 Then Peter came up and said to him, "Lord, how often will my brother sin against me, and I forgive
him? As many as seven times?"
Mat 18:22 Jesus said to him, "I do not say to you seven times, but seventy times seven.
Mat 18:23 "Therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his
servants.
Mat 18:24 When he began to settle, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents.
Mat 18:25 And since he could not pay, his master ordered him to be sold, with his wife and children and all that
he had, and payment to be made.
Mat 18:26 So the servant fell on his knees, imploring him, 'Have patience with me, and I will pay you everything.'
Mat 18:27 And out of pity for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt.
Mat 18:28 But when that same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundreddenarii, and seizing him, he began to choke him, saying, 'Pay what you owe.'
Mat 18:29 So his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with him, 'Have patience with me, and I will pay you.'
Mat 18:30 He refused and went and put him in prison until he should pay the debt.
Mat 18:31 When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly distressed, and they went and
reported to their master all that had taken place.
Mat 18:32 Then his master summoned him and said to him, 'You wicked servant! I forgave you all that debt
because you pleaded with me.
Mat 18:33 And should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant, as I had mercy on you?'
Mat 18:34 And in anger his master delivered him to the jailers, until he should pay all his debt.
Mat 18:35 So also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you, if you do not forgive your brother from your
heart."
Mat 19:1 Now when Jesus had finished these sayings, he went away from Galilee and entered the region of
Judea beyond the Jordan.
Mat 19:2 And large crowds followed him, and he healed them there.
Mat 19:3 And Pharisees came up to him and tested him by asking, "Is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any
cause?"
Mat 19:4 He answered, "Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and
female,
Mat 19:5 and said, 'Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they
shall become one flesh'?
Mat 19:6 So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man
separate."
Mat 19:7 They said to him, "Why then did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce and to send her
away?"
Mat 19:8 He said to them, "Because of your hardness of heart Moses allowed you to divorce your wives, but
from the beginning it was not so.
Mat 19:9 And I say to you: whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another,
commits adultery."
Mat 19:10 The disciples said to him, "If such is the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry."
Mat 19:11 But he said to them, "Not everyone can receive this saying, but only those to whom it is given.
Mat 19:12 For there are eunuchs who have been so from birth, and there are eunuchs who have been made
eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of
heaven. Let the one who is able to receive this receive it."
Mat 19:13 Then children were brought to him that he might lay his hands on them and pray. The disciples
rebuked the people,
Mat 19:14 but Jesus said, "Let the little children come to me and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the
kingdom of heaven."
Mat 19:15 And he laid his hands on them and went away.
Mat 19:16 And behold, a man came up to him, saying, "Teacher, what good deed must I do to have eternal
life?"
Mat 19:17 And he said to him, "Why do you ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you
would enter life, keep the commandments."
Mat 19:18 He said to him, "Which ones?" And Jesus said, "You shall not murder, You shall not commit adultery,
You shall not steal, You shall not bear false witness,
Mat 19:19 Honor your father and mother, and, You shall love your neighbor as yourself."
Mat 19:20 The young man said to him, "All these I have kept. What do I still lack?"
Mat 19:21 Jesus said to him, "If you would be perfect, go, sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you
will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me."
Mat 19:22 When the young man heard this he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions.
Mat 19:23 And Jesus said to his disciples, "Truly, I say to you, only with difficulty will a rich person enter the
kingdom of heaven.
Mat 19:24 Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to
enter the kingdom of God."
Mat 19:25 When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished, saying, "Who then can be saved?"
Mat 19:26 But Jesus looked at them and said, "With man this is impossible, but with God all things are
possible."
Mat 19:27 Then Peter said in reply, "See, we have left everything and followed you. What then will we have?"
Mat 19:28 Jesus said to them, "Truly, I say to you, in the new world, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious
throne, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.Mat 19:29 And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands, for
my name's sake, will receive a hundredfold and will inherit eternal life.
Mat 19:30 But many who are first will be last, and the last first.
Mat 20:1 "For the kingdom of heaven is like a master of a house who went out early in the morning to hire
laborers for his vineyard.
Mat 20:2 After agreeing with the laborers for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard.
Mat 20:3 And going out about the third hour he saw others standing idle in the marketplace,
Mat 20:4 and to them he said, 'You go into the vineyard too, and whatever is right I will give you.'
Mat 20:5 So they went. Going out again about the sixth hour and the ninth hour, he did the same.
Mat 20:6 And about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing. And he said to them, 'Why do you
stand here idle all day?'
Mat 20:7 They said to him, 'Because no one has hired us.' He said to them, 'You go into the vineyard too.'
Mat 20:8 And when evening came, the owner of the vineyard said to his foreman, 'Call the laborers and pay
them their wages, beginning with the last, up to the first.'
Mat 20:9 And when those hired about the eleventh hour came, each of them received a denarius.
Mat 20:10 Now when those hired first came, they thought they would receive more, but each of them also
received a denarius.
Mat 20:11 And on receiving it they grumbled at the master of the house,
Mat 20:12 saying, 'These last worked only one hour, and you have made them equal to us who have borne the
burden of the day and the scorching heat.'
Mat 20:13 But he replied to one of them, 'Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Did you not agree with me for a
denarius?
Mat 20:14 Take what belongs to you and go. I choose to give to this last worker as I give to you.
Mat 20:15 Am I not allowed to do what I choose with what belongs to me? Or do you begrudge my generosity?'
Mat 20:16 So the last will be first, and the first last."
Mat 20:17 And as Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside, and on the way he said
to them,
Mat 20:18 "See, we are going up to Jerusalem. And the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests
and scribes, and they will condemn him to death
Mat 20:19 and deliver him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified, and he will be raised on
the third day."
Mat 20:20 Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came up to him with her sons, and kneeling before him she
asked him for something.
Mat 20:21 And he said to her, "What do you want?" She said to him, "Say that these two sons of mine are to sit,
one at your right hand and one at your left, in your kingdom."
Mat 20:22 Jesus answered, "You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am to
drink?" They said to him, "We are able."
Mat 20:23 He said to them, "You will drink my cup, but to sit at my right hand and at my left is not mine to grant,
but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father."
Mat 20:24 And when the ten heard it, they were indignant at the two brothers.
Mat 20:25 But Jesus called them to him and said, "You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them,
and their great ones exercise authority over them.
Mat 20:26 It shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant,
Mat 20:27 and whoever would be first among you must be your slave,
Mat 20:28 even as the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for
many."
Mat 20:29 And as they went out of Jericho, a great crowd followed him.
Mat 20:30 And behold, there were two blind men sitting by the roadside, and when they heard that Jesus was
passing by, they cried out, "Lord, have mercy on us, Son of David!"
Mat 20:31 The crowd rebuked them, telling them to be silent, but they cried out all the more, "Lord, have mercy
on us, Son of David!"
Mat 20:32 And stopping, Jesus called them and said, "What do you want me to do for you?"
Mat 20:33 They said to him, "Lord, let our eyes be opened."
Mat 20:34 And Jesus in pity touched their eyes, and immediately they recovered their sight and followed him.
Mat 21:1 Now when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Beth-phage, to the Mount of Olives, then Jesus
sent two disciples,
Mat 21:2 saying to them, "Go into the village in front of you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied, and a
colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me.
Mat 21:3 If anyone says anything to you, you shall say, 'The Lord needs them,' and he will send them at once."Mat 21:4 This took place to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet, saying,
Mat 21:5 "Say to the daughter of Zion, 'Behold, your king is coming to you, humble, and mounted on a donkey,
and on a colt, the foal of a beast of burden.'"
Mat 21:6 The disciples went and did as Jesus had directed them.
Mat 21:7 They brought the donkey and the colt and put on them their cloaks, and he sat on them.
Mat 21:8 Most of the crowd spread their cloaks on the road, and others cut branches from the trees and spread
them on the road.
Mat 21:9 And the crowds that went before him and that followed him were shouting, "Hosanna to the Son of
David! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest!"
Mat 21:10 And when he entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred up, saying, "Who is this?"
Mat 21:11 And the crowds said, "This is the prophet Jesus, from Nazareth of Galilee."
Mat 21:12 And Jesus entered the temple and drove out all who sold and bought in the temple, and he
overturned the tables of the money-changers and the seats of those who sold pigeons.
Mat 21:13 He said to them, "It is written, 'My house shall be called a house of prayer,' but you make it a den of
robbers."
Mat 21:14 And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them.
Mat 21:15 But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children
crying out in the temple, "Hosanna to the Son of David!" they were indignant,
Mat 21:16 and they said to him, "Do you hear what these are saying?" And Jesus said to them, "Yes; have you
never read, "' Out of the mouth of infants and nursing babies you have prepared praise'?"
Mat 21:17 And leaving them, he went out of the city to Bethany and lodged there.
Mat 21:18 In the morning, as he was returning to the city, he became hungry.
Mat 21:19 And seeing a fig tree by the wayside, he went to it and found nothing on it but only leaves. And he
said to it, "May no fruit ever come from you again!" And the fig tree withered at once.
Mat 21:20 When the disciples saw it, they marveled, saying, "How did the fig tree wither at once?"
Mat 21:21 And Jesus answered them, "Truly, I say to you, if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only
do what has been done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, 'Be taken up and thrown into the
sea,' it will happen.
Mat 21:22 And whatever you ask in prayer, you will receive, if you have faith."
Mat 21:23 And when he entered the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came up to him as he
was teaching, and said, "By what authority are you doing these things, and who gave you this authority?"
Mat 21:24 Jesus answered them, "I also will ask you one question, and if you tell me the answer, then I also will
tell you by what authority I do these things.
Mat 21:25 The baptism of John, from where did it come? From heaven or from man?" And they discussed it
among themselves, saying, "If we say, 'From heaven,' he will say to us, 'Why then did you not believe him?'
Mat 21:26 But if we say, 'From man,' we are afraid of the crowd, for they all hold that John was a prophet."
Mat 21:27 So they answered Jesus, "We do not know." And he said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what
authority I do these things.
Mat 21:28 "What do you think? A man had two sons. And he went to the first and said, 'Son, go and work in the
vineyard today.'
Mat 21:29 And he answered, 'I will not,' but afterward he changed his mind and went.
Mat 21:30 And he went to the other son and said the same. And he answered, 'I go, sir,' but did not go.
Mat 21:31 Which of the two did the will of his father?" They said, "The first." Jesus said to them, "Truly, I say to
you, the tax collectors and the prostitutes go into the kingdom of God before you.
Mat 21:32 For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him, but the tax collectors
and the prostitutes believed him. And even when you saw it, you did not afterward change your minds and
believe him.
Mat 21:33 "Hear another parable. There was a master of a house who planted a vineyard and put a fence
around it and dug a winepress in it and built a tower and leased it to tenants, and went into another country.
Mat 21:34 When the season for fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the tenants to get his fruit.
Mat 21:35 And the tenants took his servants and beat one, killed another, and stoned another.
Mat 21:36 Again he sent other servants, more than the first. And they did the same to them.
Mat 21:37 Finally he sent his son to them, saying, 'They will respect my son.'
Mat 21:38 But when the tenants saw the son, they said to themselves, 'This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and
have his inheritance.'
Mat 21:39 And they took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him.
Mat 21:40 When therefore the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those tenants?"
Mat 21:41 They said to him, "He will put those wretches to a miserable death and let out the vineyard to other
tenants who will give him the fruits in their seasons."Mat 21:42 Jesus said to them, "Have you never read in the Scriptures: "' The stone that the builders rejected
has become the cornerstone; this was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes'?
Mat 21:43 Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing
its fruits.
Mat 21:44 And the one who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces; and when it falls on anyone, it will crush
him."
Mat 21:45 When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, they perceived that he was speaking
about them.
Mat 21:46 And although they were seeking to arrest him, they feared the crowds, because they held him to be a
prophet.
Mat 22:1 And again Jesus spoke to them in parables, saying,
Mat 22:2 "The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who gave a wedding feast for his son,
Mat 22:3 and sent his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding feast, but they would not come.
Mat 22:4 Again he sent other servants, saying, 'Tell those who are invited, See, I have prepared my dinner, my
oxen and my fat calves have been slaughtered, and everything is ready. Come to the wedding feast.'
Mat 22:5 But they paid no attention and went off, one to his farm, another to his business,
Mat 22:6 while the rest seized his servants, treated them shamefully, and killed them.
Mat 22:7 The king was angry, and he sent his troops and destroyed those murderers and burned their city.
Mat 22:8 Then he said to his servants, 'The wedding feast is ready, but those invited were not worthy.
Mat 22:9 Go therefore to the main roads and invite to the wedding feast as many as you find.'
Mat 22:10 And those servants went out into the roads and gathered all whom they found, both bad and good.
So the wedding hall was filled with guests.
Mat 22:11 "But when the king came in to look at the guests, he saw there a man who had no wedding garment.
Mat 22:12 And he said to him, 'Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment?' And he was
speechless.
Mat 22:13 Then the king said to the attendants, 'Bind him hand and foot and cast him into the outer darkness. In
that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.'
Mat 22:14 For many are called, but few are chosen."
Mat 22:15 Then the Pharisees went and plotted how to entangle him in his talk.
Mat 22:16 And they sent their disciples to him, along with the Herodians, saying, "Teacher, we know that you
are true and teach the way of God truthfully, and you do not care about anyone's opinion, for you are not swayed
by appearances.
Mat 22:17 Tell us, then, what you think. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?"
Mat 22:18 But Jesus, aware of their malice, said, "Why put me to the test, you hypocrites?
Mat 22:19 Show me the coin for the tax." And they brought him a denarius.
Mat 22:20 And Jesus said to them, "Whose likeness and inscription is this?"
Mat 22:21 They said, "Caesar's." Then he said to them, "Therefore render to Caesar the things that are
Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's."
Mat 22:22 When they heard it, they marveled. And they left him and went away.
Mat 22:23 The same day Sadducees came to him, who say that there is no resurrection, and they asked him a
question,
Mat 22:24 saying, "Teacher, Moses said, 'If a man dies having no children, his brother must marry the widow
and raise up children for his brother.'
Mat 22:25 Now there were seven brothers among us. The first married and died, and having no children left his
wife to his brother.
Mat 22:26 So too the second and third, down to the seventh.
Mat 22:27 After them all, the woman died.
Mat 22:28 In the resurrection, therefore, of the seven, whose wife will she be? For they all had her."
Mat 22:29 But Jesus answered them, "You are wrong, because you know neither the Scriptures nor the power
of God.
Mat 22:30 For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.
Mat 22:31 And as for the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was said to you by God:
Mat 22:32 'I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob'? He is not God of the dead,
but of the living."
Mat 22:33 And when the crowd heard it, they were astonished at his teaching.
Mat 22:34 But when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together.
Mat 22:35 And one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question to test him.
Mat 22:36 "Teacher, which is the great commandment in the Law?"
Mat 22:37 And he said to him, "You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul andwith all your mind.
Mat 22:38 This is the great and first commandment.
Mat 22:39 And a second is like it: You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
Mat 22:40 On these two commandments depend all the Law and the Prophets."
Mat 22:41 Now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question,
Mat 22:42 saying, "What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he?" They said to him, "The son of
David."
Mat 22:43 He said to them, "How is it then that David, in the Spirit, calls him Lord, saying,
Mat 22:44 "'The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand, until I put your enemies under your feet'?
Mat 22:45 If then David calls him Lord, how is he his son?"
Mat 22:46 And no one was able to answer him a word, nor from that day did anyone dare to ask him any more
questions.
Mat 23:1 Then Jesus said to the crowds and to his disciples,
Mat 23:2 "The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses' seat,
Mat 23:3 so practice and observe whatever they tell you- but not what they do. For they preach, but do not
practice.
Mat 23:4 They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear, and lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves are
not willing to move them with their finger.
Mat 23:5 They do all their deeds to be seen by others. For they make their phylacteries broad and their fringes
long,
Mat 23:6 and they love the place of honor at feasts and the best seats in the synagogues
Mat 23:7 and greetings in the marketplaces and being called rabbi by others.
Mat 23:8 But you are not to be called rabbi, for you have one teacher, and you are all brothers.
Mat 23:9 And call no man your father on earth, for you have one Father, who is in heaven.
Mat 23:10 Neither be called instructors, for you have one instructor, the Christ.
Mat 23:11 The greatest among you shall be your servant.
Mat 23:12 Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
Mat 23:13 "But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you shut the kingdom of heaven in people's
faces. For you neither enter yourselves nor allow those who would enter to go in.
Mat 23:14
Mat 23:15 Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you travel across sea and land to make a single
proselyte, and when he becomes a proselyte, you make him twice as much a child of hell as yourselves.
Mat 23:16 "Woe to you, blind guides, who say, 'If anyone swears by the temple, it is nothing, but if anyone
swears by the gold of the temple, he is bound by his oath.'
Mat 23:17 You blind fools! For which is greater, the gold or the temple that has made the gold sacred?
Mat 23:18 And you say, 'If anyone swears by the altar, it is nothing, but if anyone swears by the gift that is on
the altar, he is bound by his oath.'
Mat 23:19 You blind men! For which is greater, the gift or the altar that makes the gift sacred?
Mat 23:20 So whoever swears by the altar swears by it and by everything on it.
Mat 23:21 And whoever swears by the temple swears by it and by him who dwells in it.
Mat 23:22 And whoever swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by him who sits upon it.
Mat 23:23 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you tithe mint and dill and cumin, and have
neglected the weightier matters of the law: justice and mercy and faithfulness. These you ought to have done,
without neglecting the others.
Mat 23:24 You blind guides, straining out a gnat and swallowing a camel!
Mat 23:25 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you clean the outside of the cup and the plate,
but inside they are full of greed and self-indulgence.
Mat 23:26 You blind Pharisee! First clean the inside of the cup and the plate, that the outside also may be clean.
Mat 23:27 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed tombs, which
outwardly appear beautiful, but within are full of dead people's bones and all uncleanness.
Mat 23:28 So you also outwardly appear righteous to others, but within you are full of hypocrisy and
lawlessness.
Mat 23:29 "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you build the tombs of the prophets and
decorate the monuments of the righteous,
Mat 23:30 saying, 'If we had lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have taken part with them in shedding
the blood of the prophets.'
Mat 23:31 Thus you witness against yourselves that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets.
Mat 23:32 Fill up, then, the measure of your fathers.
Mat 23:33 You serpents, you brood of vipers, how are you to escape being sentenced to hell?Mat 23:34 Therefore I send you prophets and wise men and scribes, some of whom you will kill and crucify, and
some you will flog in your synagogues and persecute from town to town,
Mat 23:35 so that on you may come all the righteous blood shed on earth, from the blood of innocent Abel to the
blood of Zechariah the son of Barachiah, whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar.
Mat 23:36 Truly, I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation.
Mat 23:37 "O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it! How
often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you would
not!
Mat 23:38 See, your house is left to you desolate.
Mat 23:39 For I tell you, you will not see me again, until you say, 'Blessed is he who comes in the name of the
Lord.'"
Mat 24:1 Jesus left the temple and was going away, when his disciples came to point out to him the buildings of
the temple.
Mat 24:2 But he answered them, "You see all these, do you not? Truly, I say to you, there will not be left here
one stone upon another that will not be thrown down."
Mat 24:3 As he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately, saying, "Tell us, when will these
things be, and what will be the sign of your coming and of the close of the age?"
Mat 24:4 And Jesus answered them, "See that no one leads you astray.
Mat 24:5 For many will come in my name, saying, 'I am the Christ,' and they will lead many astray.
Mat 24:6 And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not alarmed, for this must take place,
but the end is not yet.
Mat 24:7 For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be famines and
earthquakes in various places.
Mat 24:8 All these are but the beginning of the birth pains.
Mat 24:9 "Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and put you to death, and you will be hated by all nations
for my name's sake.
Mat 24:10 And then many will fall away and betray one another and hate one another.
Mat 24:11 And many false prophets will arise and lead many astray.
Mat 24:12 And because lawlessness will be increased, the love of many will grow cold.
Mat 24:13 But the one who endures to the end will be saved.
Mat 24:14 And this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all
nations, and then the end will come.
Mat 24:15 "So when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by the prophet Daniel, standing in the
holy place ( let the reader understand),
Mat 24:16 then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains.
Mat 24:17 Let the one who is on the housetop not go down to take what is in his house,
Mat 24:18 and let the one who is in the field not turn back to take his cloak.
Mat 24:19 And alas for women who are pregnant and for those who are nursing infants in those days!
Mat 24:20 Pray that your flight may not be in winter or on a Sabbath.
Mat 24:21 For then there will be great tribulation, such as has not been from the beginning of the world until
now, no, and never will be.
Mat 24:22 And if those days had not been cut short, no human being would be saved. But for the sake of the
elect those days will be cut short.
Mat 24:23 Then if anyone says to you, 'Look, here is the Christ!' or 'There he is!' do not believe it.
Mat 24:24 For false christs and false prophets will arise and perform great signs and wonders, so as to lead
astray, if possible, even the elect.
Mat 24:25 See, I have told you beforehand.
Mat 24:26 So, if they say to you, 'Look, he is in the wilderness,' do not go out. If they say, 'Look, he is in the
inner rooms,' do not believe it.
Mat 24:27 For as the lightning comes from the east and shines as far as the west, so will be the coming of the
Son of Man.
Mat 24:28 Wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will gather.
Mat 24:29 "Immediately after the tribulation of those days the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give
its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
Mat 24:30 Then will appear in heaven the sign of the Son of Man, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn,
and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.
Mat 24:31 And he will send out his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather his elect from the four
winds, from one end of heaven to the other.
Mat 24:32 "From the fig tree learn its lesson: as soon as its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, youknow that summer is near.
Mat 24:33 So also, when you see all these things, you know that he is near, at the very gates.
Mat 24:34 Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place.
Mat 24:35 Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.
Mat 24:36 "But concerning that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the
Father only.
Mat 24:37 As were the days of Noah, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.
Mat 24:38 For as in those days before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage,
until the day when Noah entered the ark,
Mat 24:39 and they were unaware until the flood came and swept them all away, so will be the coming of the
Son of Man.
Mat 24:40 Then two men will be in the field; one will be taken and one left.
Mat 24:41 Two women will be grinding at the mill; one will be taken and one left.
Mat 24:42 Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know on what day your Lord is coming.
Mat 24:43 But know this, that if the master of the house had known in what part of the night the thief was
coming, he would have stayed awake and would not have let his house be broken into.
Mat 24:44 Therefore you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.
Mat 24:45 "Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom his master has set over his household, to give them
their food at the proper time?
Mat 24:46 Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes.
Mat 24:47 Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions.
Mat 24:48 But if that wicked servant says to himself, 'My master is delayed,'
Mat 24:49 and begins to beat his fellow servants and eats and drinks with drunkards,
Mat 24:50 the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he does
not know
Mat 24:51 and will cut him in pieces and put him with the hypocrites. In that place there will be weeping and
gnashing of teeth.
Mat 25:1 "Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went to meet the
bridegroom.
Mat 25:2 Five of them were foolish, and five were wise.
Mat 25:3 For when the foolish took their lamps, they took no oil with them,
Mat 25:4 but the wise took flasks of oil with their lamps.
Mat 25:5 As the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and slept.
Mat 25:6 But at midnight there was a cry, 'Here is the bridegroom! Come out to meet him.'
Mat 25:7 Then all those virgins rose and trimmed their lamps.
Mat 25:8 And the foolish said to the wise, 'Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.'
Mat 25:9 But the wise answered, saying, 'Since there will not be enough for us and for you, go rather to the
dealers and buy for yourselves.'
Mat 25:10 And while they were going to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him
to the marriage feast, and the door was shut.
Mat 25:11 Afterward the other virgins came also, saying, 'Lord, lord, open to us.'
Mat 25:12 But he answered, 'Truly, I say to you, I do not know you.'
Mat 25:13 Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour.
Mat 25:14 "For it will be like a man going on a journey, who called his servants and entrusted to them his
property.
Mat 25:15 To one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one, to each according to his ability. Then he
went away.
Mat 25:16 He who had received the five talents went at once and traded with them, and he made five talents
more.
Mat 25:17 So also he who had the two talents made two talents more.
Mat 25:18 But he who had received the one talent went and dug in the ground and hid his master's money.
Mat 25:19 Now after a long time the master of those servants came and settled accounts with them.
Mat 25:20 And he who had received the five talents came forward, bringing five talents more, saying, 'Master,
you delivered to me five talents; here I have made five talents more.'
Mat 25:21 His master said to him, 'Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will
set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master.'
Mat 25:22 And he also who had the two talents came forward, saying, 'Master, you delivered to me two talents;
here I have made two talents more.'
Mat 25:23 His master said to him, 'Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little; I willset you over much. Enter into the joy of your master.'
Mat 25:24 He also who had received the one talent came forward, saying, 'Master, I knew you to be a hard
man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you scattered no seed,
Mat 25:25 so I was afraid, and I went and hid your talent in the ground. Here you have what is yours.'
Mat 25:26 But his master answered him, 'You wicked and slothful servant! You knew that I reap where I have
not sowed and gather where I scattered no seed?
Mat 25:27 Then you ought to have invested my money with the bankers, and at my coming I should have
received what was my own with interest.
Mat 25:28 So take the talent from him and give it to him who has the ten talents.
Mat 25:29 For to everyone who has will more be given, and he will have an abundance. But from the one who
has not, even what he has will be taken away.
Mat 25:30 And cast the worthless servant into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and
gnashing of teeth.'
Mat 25:31 "When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious
throne.
Mat 25:32 Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another as a
shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
Mat 25:33 And he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on the left.
Mat 25:34 Then the King will say to those on his right, 'Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the
kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
Mat 25:35 For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger and
you welcomed me,
Mat 25:36 I was naked and you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came to me.'
Mat 25:37 Then the righteous will answer him, saying, 'Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or
thirsty and give you drink?
Mat 25:38 And when did we see you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you?
Mat 25:39 And when did we see you sick or in prison and visit you?'
Mat 25:40 And the King will answer them, 'Truly, I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my
brothers, you did it to me.'
Mat 25:41 "Then he will say to those on his left, 'Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for
the devil and his angels.
Mat 25:42 For I was hungry and you gave me no food, I was thirsty and you gave me no drink,
Mat 25:43 I was a stranger and you did not welcome me, naked and you did not clothe me, sick and in prison
and you did not visit me.'
Mat 25:44 Then they also will answer, saying, 'Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or
naked or sick or in prison, and did not minister to you?'
Mat 25:45 Then he will answer them, saying, 'Truly, I say to you, as you did not do it to one of the least of these,
you did not do it to me.'
Mat 25:46 And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life."
Mat 26:1 When Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said to his disciples,
Mat 26:2 "You know that after two days the Passover is coming, and the Son of Man will be delivered up to be
crucified."
Mat 26:3 Then the chief priests and the elders of the people gathered in the palace of the high priest, whose
name was Caiaphas,
Mat 26:4 and plotted together in order to arrest Jesus by stealth and kill him.
Mat 26:5 But they said, "Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar among the people."
Mat 26:6 Now when Jesus was at Bethany in the house of Simon the leper,
Mat 26:7 a woman came up to him with an alabaster flask of very expensive ointment, and she poured it on his
head as he reclined at table.
Mat 26:8 And when the disciples saw it, they were indignant, saying, "Why this waste?
Mat 26:9 For this could have been sold for a large sum and given to the poor."
Mat 26:10 But Jesus, aware of this, said to them, "Why do you trouble the woman? For she has done a beautiful
thing to me.
Mat 26:11 For you always have the poor with you, but you will not always have me.
Mat 26:12 In pouring this ointment on my body, she has done it to prepare me for burial.
Mat 26:13 Truly, I say to you, wherever this gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what she has done will also
be told in memory of her."
Mat 26:14 Then one of the twelve, whose name was Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests
Mat 26:15 and said, "What will you give me if I deliver him over to you?" And they paid him thirty pieces of silver.Mat 26:16 And from that moment he sought an opportunity to betray him.
Mat 26:17 Now on the first day of Un leavened Bread the disciples came to Jesus, saying, "Where will you have
us prepare for you to eat the Passover?"
Mat 26:18 He said, "Go into the city to a certain man and say to him, 'The Teacher says, My time is at hand. I
will keep the Passover at your house with my disciples.'"
Mat 26:19 And the disciples did as Jesus had directed them, and they prepared the Passover.
Mat 26:20 When it was evening, he reclined at table with the twelve.
Mat 26:21 And as they were eating, he said, "Truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me."
Mat 26:22 And they were very sorrowful and began to say to him one after another, "Is it I, Lord?"
Mat 26:23 He answered, "He who has dipped his hand in the dish with me will betray me.
Mat 26:24 The Son of Man goes as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is
betrayed! It would have been better for that man if he had not been born."
Mat 26:25 Judas, who would betray him, answered, "Is it I, Rabbi?" He said to him, "You have said so."
Mat 26:26 Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to the disciples,
and said, "Take, eat; this is my body."
Mat 26:27 And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, "Drink of it, all of you,
Mat 26:28 for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.
Mat 26:29 I tell you I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my
Father's kingdom."
Mat 26:30 And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
Mat 26:31 Then Jesus said to them, "You will all fall away because of me this night. For it is written, 'I will strike
the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.'
Mat 26:32 But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee."
Mat 26:33 Peter answered him, "Though they all fall away because of you, I will never fall away."
Mat 26:34 Jesus said to him, "Truly, I tell you, this very night, before the rooster crows, you will deny me three
times."
Mat 26:35 Peter said to him, "Even if I must die with you, I will not deny you!" And all the disciples said the
same.
Mat 26:36 Then Jesus went with them to a place called Gethsemane, and he said to his disciples, "Sit here,
while I go over there and pray."
Mat 26:37 And taking with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, he began to be sorrowful and troubled.
Mat 26:38 Then he said to them, "My soul is very sorrowful, even to death; remain here, and watch with me."
Mat 26:39 And going a little farther he fell on his face and prayed, saying, "My Father, if it be possible, let this
cup pass from me; nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will."
Mat 26:40 And he came to the disciples and found them sleeping. And he said to Peter, "So, could you not
watch with me one hour?
Mat 26:41 Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is
weak."
Mat 26:42 Again, for the second time, he went away and prayed, "My Father, if this cannot pass unless I drink it,
your will be done."
Mat 26:43 And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy.
Mat 26:44 So, leaving them again, he went away and prayed for the third time, saying the same words again.
Mat 26:45 Then he came to the disciples and said to them, "Sleep and take your rest later on. See, the hour is
at hand, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
Mat 26:46 Rise, let us be going; see, my betrayer is at hand."
Mat 26:47 While he was still speaking, Judas came, one of the twelve, and with him a great crowd with swords
and clubs, from the chief priests and the elders of the people.
Mat 26:48 Now the betrayer had given them a sign, saying, "The one I will kiss is the man; seize him."
Mat 26:49 And he came up to Jesus at once and said, "Greetings, Rabbi!" And he kissed him.
Mat 26:50 Jesus said to him, "Friend, do what you came to do." Then they came up and laid hands on Jesus
and seized him.
Mat 26:51 And behold, one of those who were with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword and struck
the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear.
Mat 26:52 Then Jesus said to him, "Put your sword back into its place. For all who take the sword will perish by
the sword.
Mat 26:53 Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father, and he will at once send me more than twelve legions
of angels?
Mat 26:54 But how then should the Scriptures be fulfilled, that it must be so?"
Mat 26:55 At that hour Jesus said to the crowds, "Have you come out as against a robber, with swords andclubs to capture me? Day after day I sat in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me.
Mat 26:56 But all this has taken place that the Scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled." Then all the
disciples left him and fled.
Mat 26:57 Then those who had seized Jesus led him to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the
elders had gathered.
Mat 26:58 And Peter was following him at a distance, as far as the courtyard of the high priest, and going inside
he sat with the guards to see the end.
Mat 26:59 Now the chief priests and the whole Council were seeking false testimony against Jesus that they
might put him to death,
Mat 26:60 but they found none, though many false witnesses came forward. At last two came forward
Mat 26:61 and said, "This man said, 'I am able to destroy the temple of God, and to rebuild it in three days.'"
Mat 26:62 And the high priest stood up and said, "Have you no answer to make? What is it that these men
testify against you?"
Mat 26:63 But Jesus remained silent. And the high priest said to him, "I adjure you by the living God, tell us if
you are the Christ, the Son of God."
Mat 26:64 Jesus said to him, "You have said so. But I tell you, from now on you will see the Son of Man seated
at the right hand of Power and coming on the clouds of heaven."
Mat 26:65 Then the high priest tore his robes and said, "He has uttered blasphemy. What further witnesses do
we need? You have now heard his blasphemy.
Mat 26:66 What is your judgment?" They answered, "He deserves death."
Mat 26:67 Then they spit in his face and struck him. And some slapped him,
Mat 26:68 saying, "Prophesy to us, you Christ! Who is it that struck you?"
Mat 26:69 Now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard. And a servant girl came up to him and said, "You also
were with Jesus the Galilean."
Mat 26:70 But he denied it before them all, saying, "I do not know what you mean."
Mat 26:71 And when he went out to the entrance, another servant girl saw him, and she said to the bystanders,
"This man was with Jesus of Nazareth."
Mat 26:72 And again he denied it with an oath: "I do not know the man."
Mat 26:73 After a little while the bystanders came up and said to Peter, "Certainly you too are one of them, for
your accent betrays you."
Mat 26:74 Then he began to invoke a curse on himself and to swear, "I do not know the man." And immediately
the rooster crowed.
Mat 26:75 And Peter remembered the saying of Jesus, "Before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times."
And he went out and wept bitterly.
Mat 27:1 When morning came, all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to
put him to death.
Mat 27:2 And they bound him and led him away and delivered him over to Pilate the governor.
Mat 27:3 Then when Judas, his betrayer, saw that Jesus was condemned, he changed his mind and brought
back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and the elders,
Mat 27:4 saying, "I have sinned by betraying innocent blood." They said, "What is that to us? See to it yourself."
Mat 27:5 And throwing down the pieces of silver into the temple, he departed, and he went and hanged himself.
Mat 27:6 But the chief priests, taking the pieces of silver, said, "It is not lawful to put them into the treasury,
since it is blood money."
Mat 27:7 So they took counsel and bought with them the potter's field as a burial place for strangers.
Mat 27:8 Therefore that field has been called the Field of Blood to this day.
Mat 27:9 Then was fulfilled what had been spoken by the prophet Jeremiah, saying, "And they took the thirty
pieces of silver, the price of him on whom a price had been set by some of the sons of Israel,
Mat 27:10 and they gave them for the potter's field, as the Lord directed me."
Mat 27:11 Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, "Are you the King of the Jews?"
Jesus said, "You have said so."
Mat 27:12 But when he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he gave no answer.
Mat 27:13 Then Pilate said to him, "Do you not hear how many things they testify against you?"
Mat 27:14 But he gave him no answer, not even to a single charge, so that the governor was greatly amazed.
Mat 27:15 Now at the feast the governor was accustomed to release for the crowd any one prisoner whom they
wanted.
Mat 27:16 And they had then a notorious prisoner called Barabbas.
Mat 27:17 So when they had gathered, Pilate said to them, "Whom do you want me to release for you:
Barabbas, or Jesus who is called Christ?"
Mat 27:18 For he knew that it was out of envy that they had delivered him up.Mat 27:19 Besides, while he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent word to him, "Have nothing to do
with that righteous man, for I have suffered much because of him today in a dream."
Mat 27:20 Now the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowd to ask for Barabbas and destroy Jesus.
Mat 27:21 The governor again said to them, "Which of the two do you want me to release for you?" And they
said, "Barabbas."
Mat 27:22 Pilate said to them, "Then what shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ?" They all said, "Let him be
crucified!"
Mat 27:23 And he said, "Why, what evil has he done?" But they shouted all the more, "Let him be crucified!"
Mat 27:24 So when Pilate saw that he was gaining nothing, but rather that a riot was beginning, he took water
and washed his hands before the crowd, saying, "I am innocent of this man's blood; see to it yourselves."
Mat 27:25 And all the people answered, "His blood be on us and on our children!"
Mat 27:26 Then he released for them Barabbas, and having scourged Jesus, delivered him to be crucified.
Mat 27:27 Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the governor's headquarters, and they gathered the
whole battalion before him.
Mat 27:28 And they stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him,
Mat 27:29 and twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head and put a reed in his right hand. And
kneeling before him, they mocked him, saying, "Hail, King of the Jews!"
Mat 27:30 And they spit on him and took the reed and struck him on the head.
Mat 27:31 And when they had mocked him, they stripped him of the robe and put his own clothes on him and
led him away to crucify him.
Mat 27:32 , As they went out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name. They compelled this man to carry
his cross.
Mat 27:33 And when they came to a place called Golgotha (which means Place of a Skull),
Mat 27:34 they offered him wine to drink, mixed with gall, but when he tasted it, he would not drink it.
Mat 27:35 And when they had crucified him, they divided his garments among them by casting lots.
Mat 27:36 Then they sat down and kept watch over him there.
Mat 27:37 And over his head they put the charge against him, which read, "This is Jesus, the King of the Jews."
Mat 27:38 Then two robbers were crucified with him, one on the right and one on the left.
Mat 27:39 And those who passed by derided him, wagging their heads
Mat 27:40 and saying, "You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself! If you are
the Son of God, come down from the cross."
Mat 27:41 So also the chief priests, with the scribes and elders, mocked him, saying,
Mat 27:42 "He saved others; he cannot save himself. He is the King of Israel; let him come down now from the
cross, and we will believe in him.
Mat 27:43 He trusts in God; let God deliver him now, if he desires him. For he said, 'I am the Son of God.'"
Mat 27:44 And the robbers who were crucified with him also reviled him in the same way.
Mat 27:45 Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour.
Mat 27:46 And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, "Eli, Eli, lema sabachthani?" that
is, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?"
Mat 27:47 And some of the bystanders, hearing it, said, "This man is calling Elijah."
Mat 27:48 And one of them at once ran and took a sponge, filled it with sour wine, and put it on a reed and gave
it to him to drink.
Mat 27:49 But the others said, "Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come to save him."
Mat 27:50 And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit.
Mat 27:51 And behold, the curtain of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom. And the earth shook, and
the rocks were split.
Mat 27:52 The tombs also were opened. And many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised,
Mat 27:53 and coming out of the tombs after his resurrection they went into the holy city and appeared to many.
Mat 27:54 When the centurion and those who were with him, keeping watch over Jesus, saw the earthquake
and what took place, they were filled with awe and said, "Truly this was the Son of God!"
Mat 27:55 There were also many women there, looking on from a distance, who had followed Jesus from
Galilee, ministering to him,
Mat 27:56 among whom were Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James and Joseph and the mother of
the sons of Zebedee.
Mat 27:57 When it was evening, there came a rich man from Arimathea, named Joseph, who also was a
disciple of Jesus.
Mat 27:58 He went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate ordered it to be given to him.
Mat 27:59 And Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean linen shroud
Mat 27:60 and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had cut in the rock. And he rolled a great stone to theentrance of the tomb and went away.
Mat 27:61 Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were there, sitting opposite the tomb.
Mat 27:62 Next day, that is, after the day of Preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered before
Pilate
Mat 27:63 and said, "Sir, we remember how that impostor said, while he was still alive, 'After three days I will
rise.'
Mat 27:64 Therefore order the tomb to be made secure until the third day, lest his disciples go and steal him
away and tell the people, 'He has risen from the dead,' and the last fraud will be worse than the first."
Mat 27:65 Pilate said to them, "You have a guard of soldiers. Go, make it as secure as you can."
Mat 27:66 So they went and made the tomb secure by sealing the stone and setting a guard.
Mat 28:1 Now after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other
Mary went to see the tomb.
Mat 28:2 And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came
and rolled back the stone and sat on it.
Mat 28:3 His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow.
Mat 28:4 And for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men.
Mat 28:5 But the angel said to the women, "Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified.
Mat 28:6 He is not here, for he has risen, as he said. Come, see the place where he lay.
Mat 28:7 Then go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead, and behold, he is going before
you to Galilee; there you will see him. See, I have told you."
Mat 28:8 So they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples.
Mat 28:9 And behold, Jesus met them and said, "Greetings!" And they came up and took hold of his feet and
worshiped him.
Mat 28:10 Then Jesus said to them, "Do not be afraid; go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they
will see me."
Mat 28:11 While they were going, behold, some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priests all that
had taken place.
Mat 28:12 And when they had assembled with the elders and taken counsel, they gave a sufficient sum of
money to the soldiers
Mat 28:13 and said, "Tell people, 'His disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep.'
Mat 28:14 And if this comes to the governor's ears, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble."
Mat 28:15 So they took the money and did as they were directed. And this story has been spread among the
Jews to this day.
Mat 28:16 Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them.
Mat 28:17 And when they saw him they worshiped him, but some doubted.
Mat 28:18 And Jesus came and said to them, "All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.
Mat 28:19 Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the
Son and of the Holy Spirit,
Mat 28:20 teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the
end of the age."
Mar 1:1 The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
Mar 1:2 As it is written in Isaiah the prophet, "Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare
your way,
Mar 1:3 the voice of one crying in the wilderness: Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight."
Mar 1:4 John appeared, baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness
of sins.
Mar 1:5 And all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to him and were being baptized by him in
the river Jordan, confessing their sins.
Mar 1:6 Now John was clothed with camel's hair and wore a leather belt around his waist and ate locusts and
wild honey.
Mar 1:7 And he preached, saying, "After me comes he who is mightier than I, the strap of whose sandals I am
not worthy to stoop down and untie.
Mar 1:8 I have baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit."
Mar 1:9 In those days Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan.
Mar 1:10 And when he came up out of the water, immediately he saw the heavens opening and the Spirit
descending on him like a dove.
Mar 1:11 And a voice came from heaven, "You are my beloved Son; with you I am well pleased."
Mar 1:12 The Spirit immediately drove him out into the wilderness.
Mar 1:13 And he was in the wilderness forty days, being tempted by Satan. And he was with the wild animals,and the angels were ministering to him.
Mar 1:14 Now after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee, proclaiming the gospel of God,
Mar 1:15 and saying, "The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand; repent and believe in the gospel."
Mar 1:16 Passing alongside the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew the brother of Simon casting a net
into the sea, for they were fishermen.
Mar 1:17 And Jesus said to them, "Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men."
Mar 1:18 And immediately they left their nets and followed him.
Mar 1:19 And going on a little farther, he saw James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, who were in their
boat mending the nets.
Mar 1:20 And immediately he called them, and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants
and followed him.
Mar 1:21 And they went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and was
teaching.
Mar 1:22 And they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one who had authority, and not as the
scribes.
Mar 1:23 And immediately there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit. And he cried out,
Mar 1:24 "What have you to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you arethe Holy One of God."
Mar 1:25 But Jesus rebuked him, saying, "Be silent, and come out of him!"
Mar 1:26 And the unclean spirit, convulsing him and crying out with a loud voice, came out of him.
Mar 1:27 And they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, "What is this? A new
teaching with authority! He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him."
Mar 1:28 And at once his fame spread everywhere throughout all the surrounding region of Galilee.
Mar 1:29 And immediately he left the synagogue and entered the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and
John.
Mar 1:30 Now Simon's mother-in-law lay ill with a fever, and immediately they told him about her.
Mar 1:31 And he came and took her by the hand and lifted her up, and the fever left her, and she began to
serve them.
Mar 1:32 That evening at sundown they brought to him all who were sick or oppressed by demons.
Mar 1:33 And the whole city was gathered together at the door.
Mar 1:34 And he healed many who were sick with various diseases, and cast out many demons. And he would
not permit the demons to speak, because they knew him.
Mar 1:35 And rising very early in the morning, while it was still dark, he departed and went out to a desolate
place, and there he prayed.
Mar 1:36 And Simon and those who were with him searched for him,
Mar 1:37 and they found him and said to him, "Everyone is looking for you."
Mar 1:38 And he said to them, "Let us go on to the next towns, that I may preach there also, for that is why I
came out."
Mar 1:39 And he went throughout all Galilee, preaching in their synagogues and casting out demons.
Mar 1:40 And a leper came to him, imploring him, and kneeling said to him, "If you will, you can make me
clean."
Mar 1:41 Moved with pity, he stretched out his hand and touched him and said to him, "I will; be clean."
Mar 1:42 And immediately the leprosy left him, and he was made clean.
Mar 1:43 And Jesus sternly charged him and sent him away at once,
Mar 1:44 and said to him, "See that you say nothing to anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest and offer for
your cleansing what Moses commanded, for a proof to them."
Mar 1:45 But he went out and began to talk freely about it, and to spread the news, so that Jesus could no
longer openly enter a town, but was out in desolate places, and people were coming to him from every quarter.
Mar 2:1 And when he returned to Capernaum after some days, it was reported that he was at home.
Mar 2:2 And many were gathered together, so that there was no more room, not even at the door. And he was
preaching the word to them.
Mar 2:3 And they came, bringing to him a paralytic carried by four men.
Mar 2:4 And when they could not get near him because of the crowd, they removed the roof above him, and
when they had made an opening, they let down the bed on which the paralytic lay.
Mar 2:5 And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, "My son, your sins are forgiven."
Mar 2:6 Now some of the scribes were sitting there, questioning in their hearts,
Mar 2:7 "Why does this man speak like that? He is blaspheming! Who can forgive sins but God alone?"
Mar 2:8 And immediately Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they thus questioned within themselves, said to
them, "Why do you question these things in your hearts?Mar 2:9 Which is easier, to say to the paralytic, 'Your sins are forgiven,' or to say, 'Rise, take up your bed and
walk'?
Mar 2:10 But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins"- he said to the
paralyticMar 2:11 "I say to you, rise, pick up your bed, and go home."
Mar 2:12 And he rose and immediately picked up his bed and went out before them all, so that they were all
amazed and glorified God, saying, "We never saw anything like this!"
Mar 2:13 He went out again beside the sea, and all the crowd was coming to him, and he was teaching them.
Mar 2:14 And as he passed by, he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the tax booth, and he said to him,
"Follow me." And he rose and followed him.
Mar 2:15 And as he reclined at table in his house, many tax collectors and sinners were reclining with Jesus and
his disciples, for there were many who followed him.
Mar 2:16 And the scribes of the Pharisees, when they saw that he was eating with sinners and tax collectors,
said to his disciples, "Why does he eat with tax collectors and sinners?"
Mar 2:17 And when Jesus heard it, he said to them, "Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those
who are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners."
Mar 2:18 Now John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting. And people came and said to him, "Why do
John's disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?"
Mar 2:19 And Jesus said to them, "Can the wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as
they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast.
Mar 2:20 The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in that day.
Mar 2:21 No one sews a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment. If he does, the patch tears away from it, the
new from the old, and a worse tear is made.
Mar 2:22 And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. If he does, the wine will burst the skins- and the wine is
destroyed, and so are the skins. But new wine is for fresh wineskins."
Mar 2:23 One Sabbath he was going through the grainfields, and as they made their way, his disciples began to
pluck heads of grain.
Mar 2:24 And the Pharisees were saying to him, "Look, why are they doing what is not lawful on the Sabbath?"
Mar 2:25 And he said to them, "Have you never read what David did, when he was in need and was hungry, he
and those who were with him:
Mar 2:26 how he entered the house of God, in the time of Abiathar the high priest, and ate the bread of the
Presence, which it is not lawful for any but the priests to eat, and also gave it to those who were with him?"
Mar 2:27 And he said to them, "The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath.
Mar 2:28 So the Son of Man is lord even of the Sabbath."
Mar 3:1 Again he entered the synagogue, and a man was there with a withered hand.
Mar 3:2 And they watched Jesus, to see whether he would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse
him.
Mar 3:3 And he said to the man with the withered hand, "Come here."
Mar 3:4 And he said to them, "Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to kill?" But
they were silent.
Mar 3:5 And he looked around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart, and said to the man,
"Stretch out your hand." He stretched it out, and his hand was restored.
Mar 3:6 The Pharisees went out and immediately held counsel with the Herodians against him, how to destroy
him.
Mar 3:7 Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea, and a great crowd followed, from Galilee and Judea
Mar 3:8 and Jerusalem and Idumea and from beyond the Jordan and from around Tyre and Sidon. When the
great crowd heard all that he was doing, they came to him.
Mar 3:9 And he told his disciples to have a boat ready for him because of the crowd, lest they crush him,
Mar 3:10 for he had healed many, so that all who had diseases pressed around him to touch him.
Mar 3:11 And whenever the unclean spirits saw him, they fell down before him and cried out, "You are the Son
of God."
Mar 3:12 And he strictly ordered them not to make him known.
Mar 3:13 And he went up on the mountain and called to him those whom he desired, and they came to him.
Mar 3:14 And he appointed twelve (whom he also named apostles) so that they might be with him and he might
send them out to preach
Mar 3:15 and have authority to cast out demons.
Mar 3:16 He appointed the twelve: Simon (to whom he gave the name Peter);
Mar 3:17 James the son of Zebedee and John the brother of James (to whom he gave the name Boanerges,
that is, Sons of Thunder);Mar 3:18 Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus,
and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Cananaean,
Mar 3:19 and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him.
Mar 3:20 Then he went home, and the crowd gathered again, so that they could not even eat.
Mar 3:21 And when his family heard it, they went out to seize him, for they were saying, "He is out of his mind."
Mar 3:22 And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem were saying, "He is possessed by Beelzebul," and
"by the prince of demons he casts out the demons."
Mar 3:23 And he called them to him and said to them in parables, "How can Satan cast out Satan?
Mar 3:24 If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand.
Mar 3:25 And if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand.
Mar 3:26 And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but is coming to an end.
Mar 3:27 But no one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods, unless he first binds the strong
man. Then indeed he may plunder his house.
Mar 3:28 "Truly, I say to you, all sins will be forgiven the children of man, and whatever blasphemies they utter,
Mar 3:29 but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin"-
Mar 3:30 for they had said, "He has an unclean spirit."
Mar 3:31 And his mother and his brothers came, and standing outside they sent to him and called him.
Mar 3:32 And a crowd was sitting around him, and they said to him, "Your mother and your brothers are outside,
seeking you."
Mar 3:33 And he an swered them, "Who are my mother and my brothers?"
Mar 3:34 And looking about at those who sat around him, he said, "Here are my mother and my brothers!
Mar 3:35 Whoever does the will of God, he is my brother and sister and mother."
Mar 4:1 Again he began to teach beside the sea. And a very large crowd gathered about him, so that he got into
a boat and sat in it on the sea, and the whole crowd was beside the sea on the land.
Mar 4:2 And he was teaching them many things in parables, and in his teaching he said to them:
Mar 4:3 "Listen! A sower went out to sow.
Mar 4:4 And as he sowed, some seed fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured it.
Mar 4:5 Other seed fell on rocky ground, where it did not have much soil, and immediately it sprang up, since it
had no depth of soil.
Mar 4:6 And when the sun rose it was scorched, and since it had no root, it withered away.
Mar 4:7 Other seed fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked it, and it yielded no grain.
Mar 4:8 And other seeds fell into good soil and produced grain, growing up and increasing and yielding thirtyfold
and sixtyfold and a hundredfold."
Mar 4:9 And he said, "He who has ears to hear, let him hear."
Mar 4:10 And when he was alone, those around him with the twelve asked him about the parables.
Mar 4:11 And he said to them, "To you has been given the secret of the kingdom of God, but for those outside
everything is in parables,
Mar 4:12 so that "they may indeed see but not perceive, and may indeed hear but not understand, lest they
should turn and be forgiven."
Mar 4:13 And he said to them, "Do you not understand this parable? How then will you understand all the
parables?
Mar 4:14 The sower sows the word.
Mar 4:15 And these are the ones along the path, where the word is sown: when they hear, Satan immediately
comes and takes away the word that is sown in them.
Mar 4:16 And these are the ones sown on rocky ground: the ones who, when they hear the word, immediately
receive it with joy.
Mar 4:17 And they have no root in themselves, but endure for a while. Then, when tribulation or persecution
arises on account of the word, immediately they fall away.
Mar 4:18 And others are the ones sown among thorns. They are those who hear the word,
Mar 4:19 but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches and the desires for other things enter in and
choke the word, and it proves unfruitful.
Mar 4:20 But those that were sown on the good soil are the ones who hear the word and accept it and bear fruit,
thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold."
Mar 4:21 And he said to them, "Is a lamp brought in to be put under a basket, or under a bed, and not on a
stand?
Mar 4:22 For nothing is hidden except to be made manifest; nor is anything secret except to come to light.
Mar 4:23 If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear."
Mar 4:24 And he said to them, "Pay attention to what you hear: with the measure you use, it will be measured to
you, and still more will be added to you.Mar 4:25 For to the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he has will be
taken away."
Mar 4:26 And he said, "The kingdom of God is as if a man should scatter seed on the ground.
Mar 4:27 He sleeps and rises night and day, and the seed sprouts and grows; he knows not how.
Mar 4:28 The earth produces by itself, first the blade, then the ear, then the full grain in the ear.
Mar 4:29 But when the grain is ripe, at once he puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come."
Mar 4:30 And he said, "With what can we compare the kingdom of God, or what parable shall we use for it?
Mar 4:31 It is like a grain of mustard seed, which, when sown on the ground, is the smallest of all the seeds on
earth,
Mar 4:32 yet when it is sown it grows up and becomes larger than all the garden plants and puts out large
branches, so that the birds of the air can make nests in its shade."
Mar 4:33 With many such parables he spoke the word to them, as they were able to hear it.
Mar 4:34 He did not speak to them without a parable, but privately to his own disciples he explained everything.
Mar 4:35 On that day, when evening had come, he said to them, "Let us go across to the other side."
Mar 4:36 And leaving the crowd, they took him with them in the boat, just as he was. And other boats were with
him.
Mar 4:37 And a great windstorm arose, and the waves were breaking into the boat, so that the boat was already
filling.
Mar 4:38 But he was in the stern, asleep on the cushion. And they woke him and said to him, "Teacher, do you
not care that we are perishing?"
Mar 4:39 And he awoke and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, "Peace! Be still!" And the wind ceased, and
there was a great calm.
Mar 4:40 He said to them, "Why are you so afraid? Have you still no faith?"
Mar 4:41 And they were filled with great fear and said to one another, "Who then is this, that even wind and sea
obey him?"
Mar 5:1 They came to the other side of the sea, to the country of the Gerasenes.
Mar 5:2 And when Jesus had stepped out of the boat, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with
an unclean spirit.
Mar 5:3 He lived among the tombs. And no one could bind him anymore, not even with a chain,
Mar 5:4 for he had often been bound with shackles and chains, but he wrenched the chains apart, and he broke
the shackles in pieces. No one had the strength to subdue him.
Mar 5:5 Night and day among the tombs and on the mountains he was always crying out and bruising himself
with stones.
Mar 5:6 And when he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and fell down before him.
Mar 5:7 And crying out with a loud voice, he said, "What have you to do with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High
God? I adjure you by God, do not torment me."
Mar 5:8 For he was saying to him, "Come out of the man, you unclean spirit!"
Mar 5:9 And Jesus asked him, "What is your name?" He replied, "My name is Legion, for we are many."
Mar 5:10 And he begged him earnestly not to send them out of the country.
Mar 5:11 Now a great herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside,
Mar 5:12 and they begged him, saying, "Send us to the pigs; let us enter them."
Mar 5:13 So he gave them permission. And the unclean spirits came out, and entered the pigs, and the herd,
numbering about two thousand, rushed down the steep bank into the sea and were drowned in the sea.
Mar 5:14 The herdsmen fled and told it in the city and in the country. And people came to see what it was that
had happened.
Mar 5:15 And they came to Jesus and saw the demon-possessed man, the one who had had the legion, sitting
there, clothed and in his right mind, and they were afraid.
Mar 5:16 And those who had seen it described to them what had happened to the demon-possessed man and
to the pigs.
Mar 5:17 And they began to beg Jesus to depart from their region.
Mar 5:18 As he was getting into the boat, the man who had been possessed with demons begged him that he
might be with him.
Mar 5:19 And he did not permit him but said to him, "Go home to your friends and tell them how much the Lord
has done for you, and how he has had mercy on you."
Mar 5:20 And he went away and began to proclaim in the Decapolis how much Jesus had done for him, and
everyone marveled.
Mar 5:21 And when Jesus had crossed again in the boat to the other side, a great crowd gathered about him,
and he was beside the sea.
Mar 5:22 Then came one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jairus by name, and seeing him, he fell at his feetMar 5:23 and implored him earnestly, saying, "My little daughter is at the point of death. Come and lay your
hands on her, so that she may be made well and live."
Mar 5:24 And he went with him. And a great crowd followed him and thronged about him.
Mar 5:25 And there was a woman who had had a discharge of blood for twelve years,
Mar 5:26 and who had suffered much under many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was no better
but rather grew worse.
Mar 5:27 She had heard the reports about Jesus and came up behind him in the crowd and touched his
garment.
Mar 5:28 For she said, "If I touch even his garments, I will be made well."
Mar 5:29 And immediately the flow of blood dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of her
disease.
Mar 5:30 And Jesus, perceiving in himself that power had gone out from him, immediately turned about in the
crowd and said, "Who touched my garments?"
Mar 5:31 And his disciples said to him, "You see the crowd pressing around you, and yet you say, 'Who touched
me?'"
Mar 5:32 And he looked around to see who had done it.
Mar 5:33 But the woman, knowing what had happened to her, came in fear and trembling and fell down before
him and told him the whole truth.
Mar 5:34 And he said to her, "Daughter, your faith has made you well; go in peace, and be healed of your
disease."
Mar 5:35 While he was still speaking, there came from the ruler's house some who said, "Your daughter is
dead. Why trouble the Teacher any further?"
Mar 5:36 But overhearing what they said, Jesus said to the ruler of the synagogue, "Do not fear, only believe."
Mar 5:37 And he allowed no one to follow him except Peter and James and John the brother of James.
Mar 5:38 They came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and Jesus saw a commotion, people weeping
and wailing loudly.
Mar 5:39 And when he had entered, he said to them, "Why are you making a commotion and weeping? The
child is not dead but sleeping."
Mar 5:40 And they laughed at him. But he put them all outside and took the child's father and mother and those
who were with him and went in where the child was.
Mar 5:41 Taking her by the hand he said to her, "Talitha cumi," which means, "Little girl, I say to you, arise."
Mar 5:42 And immediately the girl got up and began walking (for she was twelve years of age), and they were
immediately overcome with amazement.
Mar 5:43 And he strictly charged them that no one should know this, and told them to give her something to eat.
Mar 6:1 He went away from there and came to his hometown, and his disciples followed him.
Mar 6:2 And on the Sabbath he began to teach in the synagogue, and many who heard him were astonished,
saying, "Where did this man get these things? What is the wisdom given to him? How are such mighty works
done by his hands?
Mar 6:3 Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary and brother of James and Joses and Judas and Simon? And
are not his sisters here with us?" And they took offense at him.
Mar 6:4 And Jesus said to them, "A prophet is not without honor, except in his hometown and among his
relatives and in his own household."
Mar 6:5 And he could do no mighty work there, except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed
them.
Mar 6:6 And he marveled because of their unbelief. And he went about among the villages teaching.
Mar 6:7 And he called the twelve and began to send them out two by two, and gave them authority over the
unclean spirits.
Mar 6:8 He charged them to take nothing for their journey except a staff- no bread, no bag, no money in their
beltsMar 6:9 but to wear sandals and not put on two tunics.
Mar 6:10 And he said to them, "Whenever you enter a house, stay there until you depart from there.
Mar 6:11 And if any place will not receive you and they will not listen to you, when you leave, shake off the dust
that is on your feet as a testimony against them."
Mar 6:12 So they went out and proclaimed that people should repent.
Mar 6:13 And they cast out many demons and anointed with oil many who were sick and healed them.
Mar 6:14 King Herod heard of it, for Jesus' name had become known. Some said, "John the Baptist has been
raised from the dead. That is why these miraculous powers are at work in him."
Mar 6:15 But others said, "He is Elijah." And others said, "He is a prophet, like one of the prophets of old."
Mar 6:16 But when Herod heard of it, he said, "John, whom I beheaded, has been raised."Mar 6:17 For it was Herod who had sent and seized John and bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his
brother Philip's wife, because he had married her.
Mar 6:18 For John had been saying to Herod, "It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife."
Mar 6:19 And Herodias had a grudge against him and wanted to put him to death. But she could not,
Mar 6:20 for Herod feared John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and he kept him safe. When he
heard him, he was greatly perplexed, and yet he heard him gladly.
Mar 6:21 But an opportunity came when Herod on his birthday gave a banquet for his nobles and military
commanders and the leading men of Galilee.
Mar 6:22 For when Herodias's daughter came in and danced, she pleased Herod and his guests. And the king
said to the girl, "Ask me for whatever you wish, and I will give it to you."
Mar 6:23 And he vowed to her, "Whatever you ask me, I will give you, up to half of my kingdom."
Mar 6:24 And she went out and said to her mother, "For what should I ask?" And she said, "The head of John
the Baptist."
Mar 6:25 And she came in immediately with haste to the king and asked, saying, "I want you to give me at once
the head of John the Baptist on a platter."
Mar 6:26 And the king was exceedingly sorry, but because of his oaths and his guests he did not want to break
his word to her.
Mar 6:27 And immediately the king sent an executioner with orders to bring John's head. He went and
beheaded him in the prison
Mar 6:28 and brought his head on a platter and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother.
Mar 6:29 When his disciples heard of it, they came and took his body and laid it in a tomb.
Mar 6:30 , The apostles returned to Jesus and told him all that they had done and taught.
Mar 6:31 And he said to them, "Come away by yourselves to a desolate place and rest a while." For many were
coming and going, and they had no leisure even to eat.
Mar 6:32 And they went away in the boat to a desolate place by themselves.
Mar 6:33 Now many saw them going and recognized them, and they ran there on foot from all the towns and got
there ahead of them.
Mar 6:34 When he went ashore he saw a great crowd, and he had compassion on them, because they were like
sheep without a shepherd. And he began to teach them many things.
Mar 6:35 And when it grew late, his disciples came to him and said, "This is a desolate place, and the hour is
now late.
Mar 6:36 Send them away to go into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to
eat."
Mar 6:37 But he answered them, "You give them something to eat." And they said to him, "Shall we go and buy
two hundred denarii worth of bread and give it to them to eat?"
Mar 6:38 And he said to them, "How many loaves do you have? Go and see." And when they had found out,
they said, "Five, and two fish."
Mar 6:39 Then he commanded them all to sit down in groups on the green grass.
Mar 6:40 So they sat down in groups, by hundreds and by fifties.
Mar 6:41 And taking the five loaves and the two fish he looked up to heaven and said a blessing and broke the
loaves and gave them to the disciples to set before the people. And he divided the two fish among them all.
Mar 6:42 And they all ate and were satisfied.
Mar 6:43 And they took up twelve baskets full of broken pieces and of the fish.
Mar 6:44 And those who ate the loaves were five thousand men.
Mar 6:45 Immediately he made his disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side, to Bethsaida,
while he dismissed the crowd.
Mar 6:46 And after he had taken leave of them, he went up on the mountain to pray.
Mar 6:47 And when evening came, the boat was out on the sea, and he was alone on the land.
Mar 6:48 And he saw that they were making headway painfully, for the wind was against them. And about the
fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea. He meant to pass by them,
Mar 6:49 but when they saw him walking on the sea they thought it was a ghost, and cried out,
Mar 6:50 for they all saw him and were terrified. But immediately he spoke to them and said, "Take heart; it is I.
Do not be afraid."
Mar 6:51 And he got into the boat with them, and the wind ceased. And they were utterly astounded,
Mar 6:52 for they did not understand about the loaves, but their hearts were hardened.
Mar 6:53 When they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret and moored to the shore.
Mar 6:54 And when they got out of the boat, the people immediately recognized him
Mar 6:55 and ran about the whole region and began to bring the sick people on their beds to wherever they
heard he was.Mar 6:56 And wherever he came, in villages, cities, or countryside, they laid the sick in the marketplaces and
implored him that they might touch even the fringe of his garment. And as many as touched it were made well.
Mar 7:1 Now when the Pharisees gathered to him, with some of the scribes who had come from Jerusalem,
Mar 7:2 they saw that some of his disciples ate with hands that were defiled, that is, unwashed.
Mar 7:3 (For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands, holding to the tradition of
the elders,
Mar 7:4 and when they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. And there are many other
traditions that they observe, such as the washing of cups and pots and copper vessels and dining couches.)
Mar 7:5 And the Pharisees and the scribes asked him, "Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition
of the elders, but eat with defiled hands?"
Mar 7:6 And he said to them, "Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written, "' This people honors
me with their lips, but their heart is far from me;
Mar 7:7 in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.'
Mar 7:8 You leave the commandment of God and hold to the tradition of men."
Mar 7:9 And he said to them, "You have a fine way of rejecting the commandment of God in order to establish
your tradition!
Mar 7:10 For Moses said, 'Honor your father and your mother'; and, 'Whoever reviles father or mother must
surely die.'
Mar 7:11 But you say, 'If a man tells his father or his mother, Whatever you would have gained from me is
Corban' (that is, given to God)-
Mar 7:12 then you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or mother,
Mar 7:13 thus making void the word of God by your tradition that you have handed down. And many such things
you do."
Mar 7:14 And he called the people to him again and said to them, "Hear me, all of you, and understand:
Mar 7:15 There is nothing outside a person that by going into him can defile him, but the things that come out of
a person are what defile him."
Mar 7:16
Mar 7:17 And when he had entered the house and left the people, his disciples asked him about the parable.
Mar 7:18 And he said to them, "Then are you also without understanding? Do you not see that whatever goes
into a person from outside cannot defile him,
Mar 7:19 since it enters not his heart but his stomach, and is expelled?" ( Thus he declared all foods clean.)
Mar 7:20 And he said, "What comes out of a person is what defiles him.
Mar 7:21 For from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery,
Mar 7:22 coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, foolishness.
Mar 7:23 All these evil things come from within, and they defile a person."
Mar 7:24 And from there he arose and went away to the region of Tyre and Sidon. And he entered a house and
did not want anyone to know, yet he could not be hidden.
Mar 7:25 But immediately a woman whose little daughter was possessed by an unclean spirit heard of him and
came and fell down at his feet.
Mar 7:26 Now the woman was a Gentile, a Syrophoenician by birth. And she begged him to cast the demon out
of her daughter.
Mar 7:27 And he said to her, "Let the children be fed first, for it is not right to take the children's bread and throw
it to the dogs."
Mar 7:28 But she answered him, "Yes, Lord; yet even the dogs under the table eat the children's crumbs."
Mar 7:29 And he said to her, "For this statement you may go your way; the demon has left your daughter."
Mar 7:30 And she went home and found the child lying in bed and the demon gone.
Mar 7:31 Then he returned from the region of Tyre and went through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee, in the region
of the Decapolis.
Mar 7:32 And they brought to him a man who was deaf and had a speech impediment, and they begged him to
lay his hand on him.
Mar 7:33 And taking him aside from the crowd privately, he put his fingers into his ears, and after spitting
touched his tongue.
Mar 7:34 And looking up to heaven, he sighed and said to him, "Ephphatha," that is, "Be opened."
Mar 7:35 And his ears were opened, his tongue was released, and he spoke plainly.
Mar 7:36 And Jesus charged them to tell no one. But the more he charged them, the more zealously they
proclaimed it.
Mar 7:37 And they were astonished beyond measure, saying, "He has done all things well. He even makes the
deaf hear and the mute speak."
Mar 8:1 In those days, when again a great crowd had gathered, and they had nothing to eat, he called hisdisciples to him and said to them,
Mar 8:2 "I have compassion on the crowd, because they have been with me now three days and have nothing
to eat.
Mar 8:3 And if I send them away hungry to their homes, they will faint on the way. And some of them have come
from far away."
Mar 8:4 And his disciples answered him, "How can one feed these people with bread here in this desolate
place?"
Mar 8:5 And he asked them, "How many loaves do you have?" They said, "Seven."
Mar 8:6 And he directed the crowd to sit down on the ground. And he took the seven loaves, and having given
thanks, he broke them and gave them to his disciples to set before the people; and they set them before the
crowd.
Mar 8:7 And they had a few small fish. And having blessed them, he said that these also should be set before
them.
Mar 8:8 And they ate and were satisfied. And they took up the broken pieces left over, seven baskets full.
Mar 8:9 And there were about four thousand people. And he sent them away.
Mar 8:10 And immediately he got into the boat with his disciples and went to the district of Dalmanutha.
Mar 8:11 The Pharisees came and began to argue with him, seeking from him a sign from heaven to test him.
Mar 8:12 And he sighed deeply in his spirit and said, "Why does this generation seek a sign? Truly, I say to you,
no sign will be given to this generation."
Mar 8:13 And he left them, got into the boat again, and went to the other side.
Mar 8:14 Now they had forgotten to bring bread, and they had only one loaf with them in the boat.
Mar 8:15 And he cautioned them, saying, "Watch out; beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of
Herod."
Mar 8:16 And they began discussing with one another the fact that they had no bread.
Mar 8:17 And Jesus, aware of this, said to them, "Why are you discussing the fact that you have no bread? Do
you not yet perceive or understand? Are your hearts hardened?
Mar 8:18 Having eyes do you not see, and having ears do you not hear? And do you not remember?
Mar 8:19 When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you
take up?" They said to him, "Twelve."
Mar 8:20 "And the seven for the four thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up?" And
they said to him, "Seven."
Mar 8:21 And he said to them, "Do you not yet understand?"
Mar 8:22 And they came to Bethsaida. And some people brought to him a blind man and begged him to touch
him.
Mar 8:23 And he took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the village, and when he had spit on his
eyes and laid his hands on him, he asked him, "Do you see anything?"
Mar 8:24 And he looked up and said, "I see men, but they look like trees, walking."
Mar 8:25 Then Jesus laid his hands on his eyes again; and he opened his eyes, his sight was restored, and he
saw everything clearly.
Mar 8:26 And he sent him to his home, saying, "Do not even enter the village."
Mar 8:27 And Jesus went on with his disciples to the villages of Caesarea Philippi. And on the way he asked his
disciples, "Who do people say that I am?"
Mar 8:28 And they told him, "John the Baptist; and others say, Elijah; and others, one of the prophets."
Mar 8:29 And he asked them, "But who do you say that I am?" Peter answered him, "You are the Christ."
Mar 8:30 And he strictly charged them to tell no one about him.
Mar 8:31 And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the
elders and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed, and after three days rise again.
Mar 8:32 And he said this plainly. And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him.
Mar 8:33 But turning and seeing his disciples, he rebuked Peter and said, "Get behind me, Satan! For you are
not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man."
Mar 8:34 And he called to him the crowd with his disciples and said to them, "If anyone would come after me, let
him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me.
Mar 8:35 For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospel's will
save it.
Mar 8:36 For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his life?
Mar 8:37 For what can a man give in return for his life?
Mar 8:38 For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him will the
Son of Man also be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels."
Mar 9:1 And he said to them, "Truly, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death untilthey see the kingdom of God after it has come with power."
Mar 9:2 And after six days Jesus took with him Peter and James and John, and led them up a high mountain by
themselves. And he was transfigured before them,
Mar 9:3 and his clothes became radiant, intensely white, as no one on earth could bleach them.
Mar 9:4 And there appeared to them Elijah with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus.
Mar 9:5 And Peter said to Jesus, "Rabbi, it is good that we are here. Let us make three tents, one for you and
one for Moses and one for Elijah."
Mar 9:6 For he did not know what to say, for they were terrified.
Mar 9:7 And a cloud overshadowed them, and a voice came out of the cloud, "This is my beloved Son; listen to
him."
Mar 9:8 And suddenly, looking around, they no longer saw anyone with them but Jesus only.
Mar 9:9 And as they were coming down the mountain, he charged them to tell no one what they had seen, until
the Son of Man had risen from the dead.
Mar 9:10 So they kept the matter to themselves, questioning what this rising from the dead might mean.
Mar 9:11 And they asked him, "Why do the scribes say that first Elijah must come?"
Mar 9:12 And he said to them, "Elijah does come first to restore all things. And how is it written of the Son of
Man that he should suffer many things and be treated with contempt?
Mar 9:13 But I tell you that Elijah has come, and they did to him whatever they pleased, as it is written of him."
Mar 9:14 And when they came to the disciples, they saw a great crowd around them, and scribes arguing with
them.
Mar 9:15 And immediately all the crowd, when they saw him, were greatly amazed and ran up to him and
greeted him.
Mar 9:16 And he asked them, "What are you arguing about with them?"
Mar 9:17 And someone from the crowd answered him, "Teacher, I brought my son to you, for he has a spirit that
makes him mute.
Mar 9:18 And whenever it seizes him, it throws him down, and he foams and grinds his teeth and becomes rigid.
So I asked your disciples to cast it out, and they were not able."
Mar 9:19 And he answered them, "O faithless generation, how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear
with you? Bring him to me."
Mar 9:20 And they brought the boy to him. And when the spirit saw him, immediately it convulsed the boy, and
he fell on the ground and rolled about, foaming at the mouth.
Mar 9:21 And Jesus asked his father, "How long has this been happening to him?" And he said, "From
childhood.
Mar 9:22 And it has often cast him into fire and into water, to destroy him. But if you can do anything, have
compassion on us and help us."
Mar 9:23 And Jesus said to him, "If you can! All things are possible for one who believes."
Mar 9:24 Immediately the father of the child cried out and said, "I believe; help my unbelief!"
Mar 9:25 And when Jesus saw that a crowd came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it,
"You mute and deaf spirit, I command you, come out of him and never enter him again."
Mar 9:26 And after crying out and convulsing him terribly, it came out, and the boy was like a corpse, so that
most of them said, "He is dead."
Mar 9:27 But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose.
Mar 9:28 And when he had entered the house, his disciples asked him privately, "Why could we not cast it out?"
Mar 9:29 And he said to them, "This kind cannot be driven out by anything but prayer."
Mar 9:30 They went on from there and passed through Galilee. And he did not want anyone to know,
Mar 9:31 for he was teaching his disciples, saying to them, "The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the
hands of men, and they will kill him. And when he is killed, after three days he will rise."
Mar 9:32 But they did not understand the saying, and were afraid to ask him.
Mar 9:33 And they came to Capernaum. And when he was in the house he asked them, "What were you
discussing on the way?"
Mar 9:34 But they kept silent, for on the way they had argued with one another about who was the greatest.
Mar 9:35 And he sat down and called the twelve. And he said to them, "If anyone would be first, he must be last
of all and servant of all."
Mar 9:36 And he took a child and put him in the midst of them, and taking him in his arms, he said to them,
Mar 9:37 "Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me, and whoever receives me, receives not
me but him who sent me."
Mar 9:38 John said to him, "Teacher, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we tried to stop
him, because he was not following us."
Mar 9:39 But Jesus said, "Do not stop him, for no one who does a mighty work in my name will be able soonafterward to speak evil of me.
Mar 9:40 For the one who is not against us is for us.
Mar 9:41 For truly, I say to you, whoever gives you a cup of water to drink because you belong to Christ will by
no means lose his reward.
Mar 9:42 "Whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him if a great
millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea.
Mar 9:43 And if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled than with two
hands to go to hell, to the unquenchable fire.
Mar 9:44
Mar 9:45 And if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life lame than with two feet to be
thrown into hell.
Mar 9:46
Mar 9:47 And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one
eye than with two eyes to be thrown into hell,
Mar 9:48 'where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched.'
Mar 9:49 For everyone will be salted with fire.
Mar 9:50 Salt is good, but if the salt has lost its saltiness, how will you make it salty again? Have salt in
yourselves, and be at peace with one another."
Mar 10:1 And he left there and went to the region of Judea and beyond the Jordan, and crowds gathered to him
again. And again, as was his custom, he taught them.
Mar 10:2 And Pharisees came up and in order to test him asked, "Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife?"
Mar 10:3 He answered them, "What did Moses command you?"
Mar 10:4 They said, "Moses allowed a man to write a certificate of divorce and to send her away."
Mar 10:5 And Jesus said to them, "Because of your hardness of heart he wrote you this commandment.
Mar 10:6 But from the beginning of creation, 'God made them male and female.'
Mar 10:7 'Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife,
Mar 10:8 and they shall become one flesh.' So they are no longer two but one flesh.
Mar 10:9 What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate."
Mar 10:10 And in the house the disciples asked him again about this matter.
Mar 10:11 And he said to them, "Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her,
Mar 10:12 and if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery."
Mar 10:13 And they were bringing children to him that he might touch them, and the disciples rebuked them.
Mar 10:14 But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them, "Let the children come to me; do not
hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God.
Mar 10:15 Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it."
Mar 10:16 And he took them in his arms and blessed them, laying his hands on them.
Mar 10:17 And as he was setting out on his journey, a man ran up and knelt before him and asked him, "Good
Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?"
Mar 10:18 And Jesus said to him, "Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone.
Mar 10:19 You know the commandments: 'Do not murder, Do not commit adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear
false witness, Do not defraud, Honor your father and mother.'"
Mar 10:20 And he said to him, "Teacher, all these I have kept from my youth."
Mar 10:21 And Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said to him, "You lack one thing: go, sell all that you have
and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me."
Mar 10:22 Disheartened by the saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions.
Mar 10:23 And Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, "How difficult it will be for those who have wealth
to enter the kingdom of God!"
Mar 10:24 And the disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus said to them again, "Children, how difficult it
is to enter the kingdom of God!
Mar 10:25 It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom
of God."
Mar 10:26 And they were exceedingly astonished, and said to him, "Then who can be saved?"
Mar 10:27 Jesus looked at them and said, "With man it is impossible, but not with God. For all things are
possible with God."
Mar 10:28 Peter began to say to him, "See, we have left everything and followed you."
Mar 10:29 Jesus said, "Truly, I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or
father or children or lands, for my sake and for the gospel,
Mar 10:30 who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and
children and lands, with persecutions, and in the age to come eternal life.Mar 10:31 But many who are first will be last, and the last first."
Mar 10:32 And they were on the road, going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was walking ahead of them. And they
were amazed, and those who followed were afraid. And taking the twelve again, he began to tell them what was
to happen to him,
Mar 10:33 saying, "See, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief
priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death and deliver him over to the Gentiles.
Mar 10:34 And they will mock him and spit on him, and flog him and kill him. And after three days he will rise."
Mar 10:35 And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came up to him and said to him, "Teacher, we want you
to do for us whatever we ask of you."
Mar 10:36 And he said to them, "What do you want me to do for you?"
Mar 10:37 And they said to him, "Grant us to sit, one at your right hand and one at your left, in your glory."
Mar 10:38 Jesus said to them, "You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink,
or to be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized?"
Mar 10:39 And they said to him, "We are able." And Jesus said to them, "The cup that I drink you will drink, and
with the baptism with which I am baptized, you will be baptized,
Mar 10:40 but to sit at my right hand or at my left is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has been
prepared."
Mar 10:41 And when the ten heard it, they began to be indignant at James and John.
Mar 10:42 And Jesus called them to him and said to them, "You know that those who are considered rulers of
the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them.
Mar 10:43 But it shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant,
Mar 10:44 and whoever would be first among you must be slave of all.
Mar 10:45 For even the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for
many."
Mar 10:46 And they came to Jericho. And as he was leaving Jericho with his disciples and a great crowd,
Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, the son of Timaeus, was sitting by the roadside.
Mar 10:47 And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, "Jesus, Son of David,
have mercy on me!"
Mar 10:48 And many rebuked him, telling him to be silent. But he cried out all the more, "Son of David, have
mercy on me!"
Mar 10:49 And Jesus stopped and said, "Call him." And they called the blind man, saying to him, "Take heart.
Get up; he is calling you."
Mar 10:50 And throwing off his cloak, he sprang up and came to Jesus.
Mar 10:51 And Jesus said to him, "What do you want me to do for you?" And the blind man said to him, "Rabbi,
let me recover my sight."
Mar 10:52 And Jesus said to him, "Go your way; your faith has made you well." And immediately he recovered
his sight and followed him on the way.
Mar 11:1 Now when they drew near to Jerusalem, to Bethphage and Bethany, at the Mount of Olives, Jesus
sent two of his disciples
Mar 11:2 and said to them, "Go into the village in front of you, and immediately as you enter it you will find a colt
tied, on which no one has ever sat. Untie it and bring it.
Mar 11:3 If anyone says to you, 'Why are you doing this?' say, 'The Lord has need of it and will send it back
here immediately.'"
Mar 11:4 And they went away and found a colt tied at a door outside in the street, and they untied it.
Mar 11:5 And some of those standing there said to them, "What are you doing, untying the colt?"
Mar 11:6 And they told them what Jesus had said, and they let them go.
Mar 11:7 And they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their cloaks on it, and he sat on it.
Mar 11:8 And many spread their cloaks on the road, and others spread leafy branches that they had cut from
the fields.
Mar 11:9 And those who went before and those who followed were shouting, "Hosanna! Blessed is he who
comes in the name of the Lord!
Mar 11:10 Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David! Hosanna in the highest!"
Mar 11:11 And he entered Jerusalem and went into the temple. And when he had looked around at everything,
as it was already late, he went out to Bethany with the twelve.
Mar 11:12 On the following day, when they came from Bethany, he was hungry.
Mar 11:13 And seeing in the distance a fig tree in leaf, he went to see if he could find anything on it. When he
came to it, he found nothing but leaves, for it was not the season for figs.
Mar 11:14 And he said to it, "May no one ever eat fruit from you again." And his disciples heard it.
Mar 11:15 And they came to Jerusalem. And he entered the temple and began to drive out those who sold andthose who bought in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money-changers and the seats of those
who sold pigeons.
Mar 11:16 And he would not allow anyone to carry anything through the temple.
Mar 11:17 And he was teaching them and saying to them, "Is it not written, 'My house shall be called a house of
prayer for all the nations'? But you have made it a den of robbers."
Mar 11:18 And the chief priests and the scribes heard it and were seeking a way to destroy him, for they feared
him, because all the crowd was astonished at his teaching.
Mar 11:19 And when evening came they went out of the city.
Mar 11:20 As they passed by in the morning, they saw the fig tree withered away to its roots.
Mar 11:21 And Peter remembered and said to him, "Rabbi, look! The fig tree that you cursed has withered."
Mar 11:22 And Jesus answered them, "Have faith in God.
Mar 11:23 Truly, I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, 'Be taken up and thrown into the sea,' and does
not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says will come to pass, it will be done for him.
Mar 11:24 Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours.
Mar 11:25 And whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone, so that your Father
also who is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses."
Mar 11:26
Mar 11:27 And they came again to Jeru salem. And as he was walking in the temple, the chief priests and the
scribes and the elders came to him,
Mar 11:28 and they said to him, "By what authority are you doing these things, or who gave you this authority to
do them?"
Mar 11:29 Jesus said to them, "I will ask you one question; answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do
these things.
Mar 11:30 Was the baptism of John from heaven or from man? Answer me."
Mar 11:31 And they discussed it with one another, saying, "If we say, 'From heaven,' he will say, 'Why then did
you not believe him?'
Mar 11:32 But shall we say, 'From man'?"- they were afraid of the people, for they all held that John really was a
prophet.
Mar 11:33 So they answered Jesus, "We do not know." And Jesus said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what
authority I do these things."
Mar 12:1 And he began to speak to them in parables. "A man planted a vineyard and put a fence around it and
dug a pit for the winepress and built a tower, and leased it to tenants and went into another country.
Mar 12:2 When the season came, he sent a servant to the tenants to get from them some of the fruit of the
vineyard.
Mar 12:3 And they took him and beat him and sent him away empty-handed.
Mar 12:4 Again he sent to them another servant, and they struck him on the head and treated him shamefully.
Mar 12:5 And he sent another, and him they killed. And so with many others: some they beat, and some they
killed.
Mar 12:6 He had still one other, a beloved son. Finally he sent him to them, saying, 'They will respect my son.'
Mar 12:7 But those tenants said to one another, 'This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will
be ours.'
Mar 12:8 And they took him and killed him and threw him out of the vineyard.
Mar 12:9 What will the owner of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the tenants and give the vineyard to
others.
Mar 12:10 Have you not read this Scripture: "' The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone;
Mar 12:11 this was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes'?"
Mar 12:12 And they were seeking to arrest him but feared the people, for they perceived that he had told the
parable against them. So they left him and went away.
Mar 12:13 And they sent to him some of the Pharisees and some of the Herodians, to trap him in his talk.
Mar 12:14 And they came and said to him, "Teacher, we know that you are true and do not care about anyone's
opinion. For you are not swayed by appearances, but truly teach the way of God. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Cae
sar, or not? Should we pay them, or should we not?"
Mar 12:15 But, knowing their hypocrisy, he said to them, "Why put me to the test? Bring me a denarius and let
me look at it."
Mar 12:16 And they brought one. And he said to them, "Whose likeness and inscription is this?" They said to
him, "Caesar's."
Mar 12:17 Jesus said to them, "Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are
God's." And they marveled at him.
Mar 12:18 And Sadducees came to him, who say that there is no resurrection. And they asked him a question,saying,
Mar 12:19 "Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies and leaves a wife, but leaves no child, the
man must take the widow and raise up offspring for his brother.
Mar 12:20 There were seven brothers; the first took a wife, and when he died left no offspring.
Mar 12:21 And the second took her, and died, leaving no offspring. And the third likewise.
Mar 12:22 And the seven left no offspring. Last of all the woman also died.
Mar 12:23 In the resurrection, when they rise again, whose wife will she be? For the seven had her as wife."
Mar 12:24 Jesus said to them, "Is this not the reason you are wrong, because you know neither the Scriptures
nor the power of God?
Mar 12:25 For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in
heaven.
Mar 12:26 And as for the dead being raised, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the passage about the
bush, how God spoke to him, saying, 'I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob'?
Mar 12:27 He is not God of the dead, but of the living. You are quite wrong."
Mar 12:28 And one of the scribes came up and heard them disputing with one another, and seeing that he
answered them well, asked him, "Which commandment is the most important of all?"
Mar 12:29 Jesus answered, "The most important is, 'Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Mar 12:30 And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind
and with all your strength.'
Mar 12:31 The second is this: 'You shall love your neighbor as yourself.' There is no other commandment
greater than these."
Mar 12:32 And the scribe said to him, "You are right, Teacher. You have truly said that he is one, and there is
no other besides him.
Mar 12:33 And to love him with all the heart and with all the understanding and with all the strength, and to love
one's neighbor as oneself, is much more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices."
Mar 12:34 And when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, "You are not far from the kingdom of
God." And after that no one dared to ask him any more questions.
Mar 12:35 And as Jesus taught in the temple, he said, "How can the scribes say that the Christ is the son of
David?
Mar 12:36 David himself, in the Holy Spirit, declared, "' The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand, until I put
your enemies under your feet.'
Mar 12:37 David himself calls him Lord. So how is he his son?" And the great throng heard him gladly.
Mar 12:38 And in his teaching he said, "Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes and like
greetings in the marketplaces
Mar 12:39 and have the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at feasts,
Mar 12:40 who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater
condemnation."
Mar 12:41 And he sat down opposite the treasury and watched the people putting money into the offering box.
Many rich people put in large sums.
Mar 12:42 And a poor widow came and put in two small copper coins, which make a penny.
Mar 12:43 And he called his disciples to him and said to them, "Truly, I say to you, this poor widow has put in
more than all those who are contributing to the offering box.
Mar 12:44 For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty has put in everything she
had, all she had to live on."
Mar 13:1 And as he came out of the temple, one of his disciples said to him, "Look, Teacher, what wonderful
stones and what wonderful buildings!"
Mar 13:2 And Jesus said to him, "Do you see these great buildings? There will not be left here one stone upon
another that will not be thrown down."
Mar 13:3 And as he sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew
asked him privately,
Mar 13:4 "Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign when all these things are about to be
accomplished?"
Mar 13:5 And Jesus began to say to them, "See that no one leads you astray.
Mar 13:6 Many will come in my name, saying, 'I am he!' and they will lead many astray.
Mar 13:7 And when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be alarmed. This must take place, but the end
is not yet.
Mar 13:8 For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. There will be earthquakes in various
places; there will be famines. These are but the beginning of the birth pains.
Mar 13:9 "But be on your guard. For they will deliver you over to councils, and you will be beaten insynagogues, and you will stand before governors and kings for my sake, to bear witness before them.
Mar 13:10 And the gospel must first be proclaimed to all nations.
Mar 13:11 And when they bring you to trial and deliver you over, do not be anxious beforehand what you are to
say, but say whatever is given you in that hour, for it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit.
Mar 13:12 And brother will deliver brother over to death, and the father his child, and children will rise against
parents and have them put to death.
Mar 13:13 And you will be hated by all for my name's sake. But the one who endures to the end will be saved.
Mar 13:14 "But when you see the abomination of desolation standing where it ought not to be ( let the reader
understand), then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains.
Mar 13:15 Let the one who is on the housetop not go down, nor enter his house, to take anything out,
Mar 13:16 and let the one who is in the field not turn back to take his cloak.
Mar 13:17 And alas for women who are pregnant and for those who are nursing infants in those days!
Mar 13:18 Pray that it may not happen in winter.
Mar 13:19 For in those days there will be such tribulation as has not been from the beginning of the creation that
God created until now, and never will be.
Mar 13:20 And if the Lord had not cut short the days, no human being would be saved. But for the sake of the
elect, whom he chose, he shortened the days.
Mar 13:21 And then if anyone says to you, 'Look, here is the Christ!' or 'Look, there he is!' do not believe it.
Mar 13:22 False christs and false prophets will arise and perform signs and wonders, to lead astray, if possible,
the elect.
Mar 13:23 But be on guard; I have told you all things beforehand.
Mar 13:24 "But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light,
Mar 13:25 and the stars will be falling from heaven, and the powers in the heavens will be shaken.
Mar 13:26 And then they will see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory.
Mar 13:27 And then he will send out the angels and gather his elect from the four winds, from the ends of the
earth to the ends of heaven.
Mar 13:28 "From the fig tree learn its lesson: as soon as its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you
know that summer is near.
Mar 13:29 So also, when you see these things taking place, you know that he is near, at the very gates.
Mar 13:30 Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place.
Mar 13:31 Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.
Mar 13:32 "But concerning that day or that hour, no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but
only the Father.
Mar 13:33 Be on guard, keep awake. For you do not know when the time will come.
Mar 13:34 It is like a man going on a journey, when he leaves home and puts his servants in charge, each with
his work, and commands the doorkeeper to stay awake.
Mar 13:35 Therefore stay awake- for you do not know when the master of the house will come, in the evening,
or at midnight, or when the cock crows, or in the morningMar 13:36 lest he come suddenly and find you asleep.
Mar 13:37 And what I say to you I say to all: Stay awake."
Mar 14:1 It was now two days before the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread. And the chief priests
and the scribes were seeking how to arrest him by stealth and kill him,
Mar 14:2 for they said, "Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar from the people."
Mar 14:3 And while he was at Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as he was reclining at table, a woman
came with an alabaster flask of ointment of pure nard, very costly, and she broke the flask and poured it over his
head.
Mar 14:4 There were some who said to themselves indignantly, "Why was the ointment wasted like that?
Mar 14:5 For this ointment could have been sold for more than three hundred denarii and given to the poor."
And they scolded her.
Mar 14:6 But Jesus said, "Leave her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a beautiful thing to me.
Mar 14:7 For you always have the poor with you, and whenever you want, you can do good for them. But you
will not always have me.
Mar 14:8 She has done what she could; she has anointed my body beforehand for burial.
Mar 14:9 And truly, I say to you, wherever the gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what she has done will
be told in memory of her."
Mar 14:10 Then Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, went to the chief priests in order to betray him to
them.
Mar 14:11 And when they heard it, they were glad and promised to give him money. And he sought an
opportunity to betray him.Mar 14:12 And on the first day of Unleavened Bread, when they sacrificed the Passover lamb, his disciples said
to him, "Where will you have us go and prepare for you to eat the Passover?"
Mar 14:13 And he sent two of his disciples and said to them, "Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water
will meet you. Follow him,
Mar 14:14 and wherever he enters, say to the master of the house, 'The Teacher says, Where is my guest
room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?'
Mar 14:15 And he will show you a large upper room furnished and ready; there prepare for us."
Mar 14:16 And the disciples set out and went to the city and found it just as he had told them, and they prepared
the Passover.
Mar 14:17 And when it was evening, he came with the twelve.
Mar 14:18 And as they were reclining at table and eating, Jesus said, "Truly, I say to you, one of you will betray
me, one who is eating with me."
Mar 14:19 They began to be sorrowful and to say to him one after another, "Is it I?"
Mar 14:20 He said to them, "It is one of the twelve, one who is dipping bread into the dish with me.
Mar 14:21 For the Son of Man goes as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is
betrayed! It would have been better for that man if he had not been born."
Mar 14:22 And as they were eating, he took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to them, and said,
"Take; this is my body."
Mar 14:23 And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, and they all drank of it.
Mar 14:24 And he said to them, "This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many.
Mar 14:25 Truly, I say to you, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the
kingdom of God."
Mar 14:26 And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
Mar 14:27 And Jesus said to them, "You will all fall away, for it is written, 'I will strike the shepherd, and the
sheep will be scattered.'
Mar 14:28 But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee."
Mar 14:29 Peter said to him, "Even though they all fall away, I will not."
Mar 14:30 And Jesus said to him, "Truly, I tell you, this very night, before the rooster crows twice, you will deny
me three times."
Mar 14:31 But he said emphatically, "If I must die with you, I will not deny you." And they all said the same.
Mar 14:32 And they went to a place called Gethsemane. And he said to his disciples, "Sit here while I pray."
Mar 14:33 And he took with him Peter and James and John, and began to be greatly distressed and troubled.
Mar 14:34 And he said to them, "My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch."
Mar 14:35 And going a little farther, he fell on the ground and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might
pass from him.
Mar 14:36 And he said, "Abba, Father, all things are possible for you. Remove this cup from me. Yet not what I
will, but what you will."
Mar 14:37 And he came and found them sleeping, and he said to Peter, "Simon, are you asleep? Could you not
watch one hour?
Mar 14:38 Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is
weak."
Mar 14:39 And again he went away and prayed, saying the same words.
Mar 14:40 And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were very heavy, and they did not know
what to answer him.
Mar 14:41 And he came the third time and said to them, "Are you still sleeping and taking your rest? It is
enough; the hour has come. The Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
Mar 14:42 Rise, let us be going; see, my betrayer is at hand."
Mar 14:43 And immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas came, one of the twelve, and with him a crowd
with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders.
Mar 14:44 Now the betrayer had given them a sign, saying, "The one I will kiss is the man. Seize him and lead
him away under guard."
Mar 14:45 And when he came, he went up to him at once and said, "Rabbi!" And he kissed him.
Mar 14:46 And they laid hands on him and seized him.
Mar 14:47 But one of those who stood by drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his
ear.
Mar 14:48 And Jesus said to them, "Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs to capture
me?
Mar 14:49 Day after day I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me. But let the Scriptures
be fulfilled."Mar 14:50 And they all left him and fled.
Mar 14:51 And a young man followed him, with nothing but a linen cloth about his body. And they seized him,
Mar 14:52 but he left the linen cloth and ran away naked.
Mar 14:53 And they led Jesus to the high priest. And all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes came
together.
Mar 14:54 And Peter had followed him at a distance, right into the courtyard of the high priest. And he was
sitting with the guards and warming himself at the fire.
Mar 14:55 Now the chief priests and the whole Council were seeking testimony against Jesus to put him to
death, but they found none.
Mar 14:56 For many bore false witness against him, but their testimony did not agree.
Mar 14:57 And some stood up and bore false witness against him, saying,
Mar 14:58 "We heard him say, 'I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and in three days I will build
another, not made with hands.'"
Mar 14:59 Yet even about this their testimony did not agree.
Mar 14:60 And the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus, "Have you no answer to make? What is it
that these men testify against you?"
Mar 14:61 But he remained silent and made no answer. Again the high priest asked him, "Are you the Christ,
the Son of the Blessed?"
Mar 14:62 And Jesus said, "I am, and you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of Power, and
coming with the clouds of heaven."
Mar 14:63 And the high priest tore his garments and said, "What further witnesses do we need?
Mar 14:64 You have heard his blasphemy. What is your decision?" And they all condemned him as deserving
death.
Mar 14:65 And some began to spit on him and to cover his face and to strike him, saying to him, "Prophesy!"
And the guards received him with blows.
Mar 14:66 And as Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came,
Mar 14:67 and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, "You also were with the Nazarene,
Jesus."
Mar 14:68 But he denied it, saying, "I neither know nor understand what you mean." And he went out into the
gateway and the rooster crowed.
Mar 14:69 And the servant girl saw him and began again to say to the bystanders, "This man is one of them."
Mar 14:70 But again he denied it. And after a little while the bystanders again said to Peter, "Cer tainly you are
one of them, for you are a Galilean."
Mar 14:71 But he began to invoke a curse on himself and to swear, "I do not know this man of whom you
speak."
Mar 14:72 And immediately the rooster crowed a second time. And Peter remembered how Jesus had said to
him, "Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times." And he broke down and wept.
Mar 15:1 And as soon as it was morning, the chief priests held a consultation with the elders and scribes and
the whole Council. And they bound Jesus and led him away and delivered him over to Pilate.
Mar 15:2 And Pilate asked him, "Are you the King of the Jews?" And he answered him, "You have said so."
Mar 15:3 And the chief priests accused him of many things.
Mar 15:4 And Pilate again asked him, "Have you no answer to make? See how many charges they bring
against you."
Mar 15:5 But Jesus made no further answer, so that Pilate was amazed.
Mar 15:6 Now at the feast he used to release for them one prisoner for whom they asked.
Mar 15:7 And among the rebels in prison, who had committed murder in the insurrection, there was a man
called Barabbas.
Mar 15:8 And the crowd came up and began to ask Pilate to do as he usually did for them.
Mar 15:9 And he answered them, saying, "Do you want me to release for you the King of the Jews?"
Mar 15:10 For he perceived that it was out of envy that the chief priests had delivered him up.
Mar 15:11 But the chief priests stirred up the crowd to have him release for them Barabbas instead.
Mar 15:12 And Pilate again said to them, "Then what shall I do with the man you call the King of the Jews?"
Mar 15:13 And they cried out again, "Crucify him."
Mar 15:14 And Pilate said to them, "Why, what evil has he done?" But they shouted all the more, "Crucify him."
Mar 15:15 So Pilate, wishing to satisfy the crowd, released for them Barabbas, and having scourged Jesus, he
delivered him to be crucified.
Mar 15:16 And the soldiers led him away inside the palace (that is, the governor's headquarters), and they
called together the whole battalion.
Mar 15:17 And they clothed him in a purple cloak, and twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on him.Mar 15:18 And they began to salute him, "Hail, King of the Jews!"
Mar 15:19 And they were striking his head with a reed and spitting on him and kneeling down in homage to him.
Mar 15:20 And when they had mocked him, they stripped him of the purple cloak and put his own clothes on
him. And they led him out to crucify him.
Mar 15:21 And they compelled a passerby, Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country, the father of
Alex ander and Rufus, to carry his cross.
Mar 15:22 And they brought him to the place called Golgotha (which means Place of a Skull).
Mar 15:23 And they offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it.
Mar 15:24 And they crucified him and divided his garments among them, casting lots for them, to decide what
each should take.
Mar 15:25 And it was the third hour when they crucified him.
Mar 15:26 And the inscription of the charge against him read, "The King of the Jews."
Mar 15:27 And with him they crucified two robbers, one on his right and one on his left.
Mar 15:28
Mar 15:29 And those who passed by derided him, wagging their heads and saying, "Aha! You who would
destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days,
Mar 15:30 save yourself, and come down from the cross!"
Mar 15:31 So also the chief priests with the scribes mocked him to one another, saying, "He saved others; he
cannot save himself.
Mar 15:32 Let the Christ, the King of Israel, come down now from the cross that we may see and believe."
Those who were crucified with him also reviled him.
Mar 15:33 And when the sixth hour had come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour.
Mar 15:34 And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, "Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?" which means, "My
God, my God, why have you forsaken me?"
Mar 15:35 And some of the bystanders hearing it said, "Behold, he is calling Elijah."
Mar 15:36 And someone ran and filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on a reed and gave it to him to drink,
saying, "Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come to take him down."
Mar 15:37 And Jesus uttered a loud cry and breathed his last.
Mar 15:38 And the curtain of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom.
Mar 15:39 And when the centurion, who stood facing him, saw that in this way he breathed his last, he said,
"Truly this man was the Son of God!"
Mar 15:40 There were also women looking on from a distance, among whom were Mary Magdalene, and Mary
the mother of James the younger and of Joses, and Salome.
Mar 15:41 When he was in Galilee, they followed him and ministered to him, and there were also many other
women who came up with him to Jerusalem.
Mar 15:42 And when evening had come, since it was the day of Preparation, that is, the day before the
Sabbath,
Mar 15:43 Joseph of Arimathea, a respected member of the Council, who was also himself looking for the
kingdom of God, took courage and went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
Mar 15:44 Pilate was surprised to hear that he should have already died. And summoning the centurion, he
asked him whether he was already dead.
Mar 15:45 And when he learned from the centurion that he was dead, he granted the corpse to Joseph.
Mar 15:46 And Joseph bought a linen shroud, and taking him down, wrapped him in the linen shroud and laid
him in a tomb that had been cut out of the rock. And he rolled a stone against the entrance of the tomb.
Mar 15:47 Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where he was laid.
Mar 16:1 , When the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James and Salome bought
spices, so that they might go and anoint him.
Mar 16:2 And very early on the first day of the week, when the sun had risen, they went to the tomb.
Mar 16:3 And they were saying to one another, "Who will roll away the stone for us from the entrance of the
tomb?"
Mar 16:4 And looking up, they saw that the stone had been rolled back- it was very large.
Mar 16:5 And entering the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in a white robe, and
they were alarmed.
Mar 16:6 And he said to them, "Do not be alarmed. You seek Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He has
risen; he is not here. See the place where they laid him.
Mar 16:7 But go, tell his disciples and Peter that he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him, just
as he told you."
Mar 16:8 And they went out and fled from the tomb, for trembling and astonishment had seized them, and they
said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid. [SOME OF THE EARLIEST MANUSCRIPTS DO NOT INCLUDE16:9-20.]
Mar 16:9 [[Now when he rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from
whom he had cast out seven demons.
Mar 16:10 She went and told those who had been with him, as they mourned and wept.
Mar 16:11 But when they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, they would not believe it.
Mar 16:12 After these things he appeared in another form to two of them, as they were walking into the country.
Mar 16:13 And they went back and told the rest, but they did not believe them.
Mar 16:14 Afterward he appeared to the eleven themselves as they were reclining at table, and he rebuked
them for their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they had not believed those who saw him after he had
risen.
Mar 16:15 And he said to them, "Go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to the whole creation.
Mar 16:16 Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned.
Mar 16:17 And these signs will accompany those who believe: in my name they will cast out demons; they will
speak in new tongues;
Mar 16:18 they will pick up serpents with their hands; and if they drink any deadly poison, it will not hurt them;
they will lay their hands on the sick, and they will recover."
Mar 16:19 So then the Lord Jesus, after he had spoken to them, was taken up into heaven and sat down at the
right hand of God.
Mar 16:20 And they went out and preached everywhere, while the Lord worked with them and confirmed the
message by accompanying signs.]]
Luk 1:1 Inasmuch as many have undertaken to compile a narrative of the things that have been accomplished
among us,
Luk 1:2 just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word have delivered them
to us,
Luk 1:3 it seemed good to me also, having followed all things closely for some time past, to write an orderly
account for you, most excellent Theophilus,
Luk 1:4 that you may have certainty concerning the things you have been taught.
Luk 1:5 In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah, of the division of Abijah. And
he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth.
Luk 1:6 And they were both righteous before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of
the Lord.
Luk 1:7 But they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and both were advanced in years.
Luk 1:8 Now while he was serving as priest before God when his division was on duty,
Luk 1:9 according to the custom of the priesthood, he was chosen by lot to enter the temple of the Lord and
burn incense.
Luk 1:10 And the whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of incense.
Luk 1:11 And there appeared to him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense.
Luk 1:12 And Zechariah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him.
Luk 1:13 But the angel said to him, "Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife
Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John.
Luk 1:14 And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth,
Luk 1:15 for he will be great before the Lord. And he must not drink wine or strong drink, and he will be filled
with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb.
Luk 1:16 And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God,
Luk 1:17 and he will go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the
children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready for the Lord a people prepared."
Luk 1:18 And Zechariah said to the angel, "How shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife is
advanced in years."
Luk 1:19 And the angel answered him, "I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God, and I was sent to
speak to you and to bring you this good news.
Luk 1:20 And behold, you will be silent and unable to speak until the day that these things take place, because
you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their time."
Luk 1:21 And the people were waiting for Zechariah, and they were wondering at his delay in the temple.
Luk 1:22 And when he came out, he was unable to speak to them, and they realized that he had seen a vision
in the temple. And he kept making signs to them and remained mute.
Luk 1:23 And when his time of service was ended, he went to his home.
Luk 1:24 After these days his wife Elizabeth conceived, and for five months she kept herself hidden, saying,
Luk 1:25 "Thus the Lord has done for me in the days when he looked on me, to take away my reproach among
people."Luk 1:26 In the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth,
Luk 1:27 to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. And the virgin's name
was Mary.
Luk 1:28 And he came to her and said, "Greetings, O favored one, the Lord is with you!"
Luk 1:29 But she was greatly troubled at the saying, and tried to discern what sort of greeting this might be.
Luk 1:30 And the angel said to her, "Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God.
Luk 1:31 And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus.
Luk 1:32 He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the
throne of his father David,
Luk 1:33 and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end."
Luk 1:34 And Mary said to the angel, "How will this be, since I am a virgin?"
Luk 1:35 And the angel answered her, "The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will
overshadow you; therefore the child to be born will be called holy- the Son of God.
Luk 1:36 And behold, your relative Elizabeth in her old age has also conceived a son, and this is the sixth month
with her who was called barren.
Luk 1:37 For nothing will be impossible with God."
Luk 1:38 And Mary said, "Behold, I am the servant of the Lord; let it be to me according to your word." And the
angel departed from her.
Luk 1:39 In those days Mary arose and went with haste into the hill country, to a town in Judah,
Luk 1:40 and she entered the house of Zechariah and greeted Elizabeth.
Luk 1:41 And when Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, the baby leaped in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled
with the Holy Spirit,
Luk 1:42 and she ex claimed with a loud cry, "Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your
womb!
Luk 1:43 And why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me?
Luk 1:44 For behold, when the sound of your greeting came to my ears, the baby in my womb leaped for joy.
Luk 1:45 And blessed is she who believed that there would be a fulfillment of what was spoken to her from the
Lord."
Luk 1:46 And Mary said, "My soul magnifies the Lord,
Luk 1:47 and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior,
Luk 1:48 for he has looked on the humble estate of his servant. For behold, from now on all generations will call
me blessed;
Luk 1:49 for he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name.
Luk 1:50 And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation.
Luk 1:51 He has shown strength with his arm; he has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts;
Luk 1:52 he has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humble estate;
Luk 1:53 he has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent empty away.
Luk 1:54 He has helped his servant Israel, in remembrance of his mercy,
Luk 1:55 as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and to his offspring forever."
Luk 1:56 And Mary remained with her about three months and returned to her home.
Luk 1:57 Now the time came for Elizabeth to give birth, and she bore a son.
Luk 1:58 And her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had shown great mercy to her, and they rejoiced
with her.
Luk 1:59 And on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child. And they would have called him Zechariah
after his father,
Luk 1:60 but his mother answered, "No; he shall be called John."
Luk 1:61 And they said to her, "None of your relatives is called by this name."
Luk 1:62 And they made signs to his father, inquiring what he wanted him to be called.
Luk 1:63 And he asked for a writing tablet and wrote, "His name is John." And they all wondered.
Luk 1:64 And immediately his mouth was opened and his tongue loosed, and he spoke, blessing God.
Luk 1:65 And fear came on all their neighbors. And all these things were talked about through all the hill country
of Judea,
Luk 1:66 and all who heard them laid them up in their hearts, saying, "What then will this child be?" For the hand
of the Lord was with him.
Luk 1:67 And his father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying,
Luk 1:68 "Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people
Luk 1:69 and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David,
Luk 1:70 as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old,
Luk 1:71 that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us;Luk 1:72 to show the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant,
Luk 1:73 the oath that he swore to our father Abraham, to grant us
Luk 1:74 that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear,
Luk 1:75 in holiness and righteousness before him all our days.
Luk 1:76 And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High; for you will go before the Lord to prepare
his ways,
Luk 1:77 to give knowledge of salvation to his people in the forgiveness of their sins,
Luk 1:78 because of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high
Luk 1:79 to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of
peace."
Luk 1:80 And the child grew and became strong in spirit, and he was in the wilderness until the day of his public
appearance to Israel.
Luk 2:1 In those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered.
Luk 2:2 This was the first registration when Quirinius was governor of Syria.
Luk 2:3 And all went to be registered, each to his own town.
Luk 2:4 And Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the town of Nazareth, to Judea, to the city of David, which
is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David,
Luk 2:5 to be registered with Mary, his betrothed, who was with child.
Luk 2:6 And while they were there, the time came for her to give birth.
Luk 2:7 And she gave birth to her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling cloths and laid him in a manger,
because there was no place for them in the inn.
Luk 2:8 And in the same region there were shepherds out in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night.
Luk 2:9 And an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they
were filled with fear.
Luk 2:10 And the angel said to them, "Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of a great joy that will be for
all the people.
Luk 2:11 For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord.
Luk 2:12 And this will be a sign for you: you will find a baby wrapped in swaddling cloths and lying in a manger."
Luk 2:13 And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying,
Luk 2:14 "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased!"
Luk 2:15 When the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, "Let us go
over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us."
Luk 2:16 And they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph, and the baby lying in a manger.
Luk 2:17 And when they saw it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child.
Luk 2:18 And all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them.
Luk 2:19 But Mary treasured up all these things, pondering them in her heart.
Luk 2:20 And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen, as it had
been told them.
Luk 2:21 And at the end of eight days, when he was circumcised, he was called Jesus, the name given by the
angel before he was conceived in the womb.
Luk 2:22 And when the time came for their purification according to the Law of Moses, they brought him up to
Jerusalem to present him to the Lord
Luk 2:23 (as it is written in the Law of the Lord, "Every male who first opens the womb shall be called holy to the
Lord")
Luk 2:24 and to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the Law of the Lord, "a pair of turtledoves, or two
young pigeons."
Luk 2:25 Now there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon, and this man was righteous and
devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him.
Luk 2:26 And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the
Lord's Christ.
Luk 2:27 And he came in the Spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus, to do for
him according to the custom of the Law,
Luk 2:28 he took him up in his arms and blessed God and said,
Luk 2:29 "Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace, according to your word;
Luk 2:30 for my eyes have seen your salvation
Luk 2:31 that you have prepared in the presence of all peoples,
Luk 2:32 a light for revelation to the Gentiles, and for glory to your people Israel."
Luk 2:33 And his father and his mother marveled at what was said about him.
Luk 2:34 And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary his mother, "Behold, this child is appointed for the fall andrising of many in Israel, and for a sign that is opposed
Luk 2:35 (and a sword will pierce through your own soul also), so that thoughts from many hearts may be
revealed."
Luk 2:36 And there was a prophetess, Anna, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was advanced
in years, having lived with her husband seven years from when she was a virgin,
Luk 2:37 and then as a widow until she was eighty-four. She did not depart from the temple, worshiping with
fasting and prayer night and day.
Luk 2:38 And coming up at that very hour she began to give thanks to God and to speak of him to all who were
waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem.
Luk 2:39 And when they had performed everything according to the Law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee,
to their own town of Nazareth.
Luk 2:40 And the child grew and became strong, filled with wisdom. And the favor of God was upon him.
Luk 2:41 Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the Feast of the Passover.
Luk 2:42 And when he was twelve years old, they went up according to custom.
Luk 2:43 And when the feast was ended, as they were returning, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem. His
parents did not know it,
Luk 2:44 but supposing him to be in the group they went a day's journey, but then they began to search for him
among their relatives and acquaintances,
Luk 2:45 and when they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem, searching for him.
Luk 2:46 After three days they found him in the temple, sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking
them questions.
Luk 2:47 And all who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers.
Luk 2:48 And when his parents saw him, they were astonished. And his mother said to him, "Son, why have you
treated us so? Behold, your father and I have been searching for you in great distress."
Luk 2:49 And he said to them, "Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be in my Father's
house?"
Luk 2:50 And they did not understand the saying that he spoke to them.
Luk 2:51 And he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was submissive to them. And his mother
treasured up all these things in her heart.
Luk 2:52 And Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man.
Luk 3:1 In the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, and Herod
being tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias
tetrarch of Abilene,
Luk 3:2 during the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John the son of Zechariah
in the wilderness.
Luk 3:3 And he went into all the region around the Jordan, proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the
forgiveness of sins.
Luk 3:4 As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, "The voice of one crying in the wilderness:
Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.
Luk 3:5 Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be made low, and the crooked shall
become straight, and the rough places shall become level ways,
Luk 3:6 and all flesh shall see the salvation of God."
Luk 3:7 He said therefore to the crowds that came out to be baptized by him, "You brood of vipers! Who warned
you to flee from the wrath to come?
Luk 3:8 Bear fruits in keeping with repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, 'We have Abraham as
our father.' For I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham.
Luk 3:9 Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not bear good fruit is cut
down and thrown into the fire."
Luk 3:10 And the crowds asked him, "What then shall we do?"
Luk 3:11 And he answered them, "Whoever has two tunics is to share with him who has none, and whoever has
food is to do likewise."
Luk 3:12 Tax collectors also came to be baptized and said to him, "Teacher, what shall we do?"
Luk 3:13 And he said to them, "Collect no more than you are authorized to do."
Luk 3:14 Soldiers also asked him, "And we, what shall we do?" And he said to them, "Do not extort money from
anyone by threats or by false accusation, and be content with your wages."
Luk 3:15 As the people were in expectation, and all were questioning in their hearts concerning John, whether
he might be the Christ,
Luk 3:16 John answered them all, saying, "I baptize you with water, but he who is mightier than I is coming, the
strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire.Luk 3:17 His winnowing fork is in his hand, to clear his threshing floor and to gather the wheat into his barn, but
the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire."
Luk 3:18 So with many other exhortations he preached good news to the people.
Luk 3:19 But Herod the tetrarch, who had been reproved by him for Herodias, his brother's wife, and for all the
evil things that Herod had done,
Luk 3:20 added this to them all, that he locked up John in prison.
Luk 3:21 Now when all the people were baptized, and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, the
heavens were opened,
Luk 3:22 and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form, like a dove; and a voice came from heaven, "You
are my beloved Son; with you I am well pleased."
Luk 3:23 Jesus, when he began his ministry, was about thirty years of age, being the son (as was supposed) of
Joseph, the son of Heli,
Luk 3:24 the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph,
Luk 3:25 the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai,
Luk 3:26 the son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semein, the son of Josech, the son of Joda,
Luk 3:27 the son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri,
Luk 3:28 the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmadam, the son of Er,
Luk 3:29 the son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi,
Luk 3:30 the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonam, the son of Eliakim,
Luk 3:31 the son of Melea, the son of Menna, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David,
Luk 3:32 the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Sala, the son of Nahshon,
Luk 3:33 the son of Amminadab, the son of Admin, the son of Arni, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son
of Judah,
Luk 3:34 the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor,
Luk 3:35 the son of Serug, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Shelah,
Luk 3:36 the son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech,
Luk 3:37 the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalaleel, the son of Cainan,
Luk 3:38 the son of Enos, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God.
Luk 4:1 And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the wilderness
Luk 4:2 for forty days, being tempted by the devil. And he ate nothing during those days. And when they were
ended, he was hungry.
Luk 4:3 The devil said to him, "If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread."
Luk 4:4 And Jesus answered him, "It is written, 'Man shall not live by bread alone.'"
Luk 4:5 And the devil took him up and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time,
Luk 4:6 and said to him, "To you I will give all this authority and their glory, for it has been delivered to me, and I
give it to whom I will.
Luk 4:7 If you, then, will worship me, it will all be yours."
Luk 4:8 And Jesus answered him, "It is written, "' You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you
serve.'"
Luk 4:9 And he took him to Jerusalem and set him on the pinnacle of the temple and said to him, "If you are the
Son of God, throw yourself down from here,
Luk 4:10 for it is written, "' He will command his angels concerning you, to guard you,'
Luk 4:11 and "'On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.'"
Luk 4:12 And Jesus answered him, "It is said, 'You shall not put the Lord your God to the test.'"
Luk 4:13 And when the devil had ended every temptation, he departed from him until an opportune time.
Luk 4:14 And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee, and a report about him went out through all
the surrounding country.
Luk 4:15 And he taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all.
Luk 4:16 And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up. And as was his custom, he went to the
synagogue on the Sabbath day, and he stood up to read.
Luk 4:17 And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him. He unrolled the scroll and found the place where
it was written,
Luk 4:18 "The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He
has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are
oppressed,
Luk 4:19 to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor."
Luk 4:20 And he rolled up the scroll and gave it back to the attendant and sat down. And the eyes of all in the
synagogue were fixed on him.
Luk 4:21 And he began to say to them, "Today this Scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing."Luk 4:22 And all spoke well of him and marveled at the gracious words that were coming from his mouth. And
they said, "Is not this Joseph's son?"
Luk 4:23 And he said to them, "Doubtless you will quote to me this proverb, 'Physician, heal yourself.' What we
have heard you did at Capernaum, do here in your hometown as well."
Luk 4:24 And he said, "Truly, I say to you, no prophet is acceptable in his hometown.
Luk 4:25 But in truth, I tell you, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heavens were
shut up three years and six months, and a great famine came over all the land,
Luk 4:26 and Elijah was sent to none of them but only to Zarephath, in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a
widow.
Luk 4:27 And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of the prophet Elisha, and none of them was
cleansed, but only Naaman the Syrian."
Luk 4:28 When they heard these things, all in the synagogue were filled with wrath.
Luk 4:29 And they rose up and drove him out of the town and brought him to the brow of the hill on which their
town was built, so that they could throw him down the cliff.
Luk 4:30 But passing through their midst, he went away.
Luk 4:31 And he went down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee. And he was teaching them on the Sabbath,
Luk 4:32 and they were astonished at his teaching, for his word possessed authority.
Luk 4:33 And in the synagogue there was a man who had the spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with
a loud voice,
Luk 4:34 "Ha! What have you to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you
are- the Holy One of God."
Luk 4:35 But Jesus rebuked him, saying, "Be silent and come out of him!" And when the demon had thrown him
down in their midst, he came out of him, having done him no harm.
Luk 4:36 And they were all amazed and said to one another, "What is this word? For with authority and power
he commands the unclean spirits, and they come out!"
Luk 4:37 And reports about him went out into every place in the surrounding region.
Luk 4:38 And he arose and left the synagogue and entered Simon's house. Now Simon's mother-in-law was ill
with a high fever, and they appealed to him on her behalf.
Luk 4:39 And he stood over her and rebuked the fever, and it left her, and immediately she rose and began to
serve them.
Luk 4:40 Now when the sun was setting, all those who had any who were sick with various diseases brought
them to him, and he laid his hands on every one of them and healed them.
Luk 4:41 And demons also came out of many, crying, "You are the Son of God!" But he rebuked them and
would not allow them to speak, because they knew that he was the Christ.
Luk 4:42 And when it was day, he departed and went into a desolate place. And the people sought him and
came to him, and would have kept him from leaving them,
Luk 4:43 but he said to them, "I must preach the good news of the kingdom of God to the other towns as well;
for I was sent for this purpose."
Luk 4:44 And he was preaching in the synagogues of Judea.
Luk 5:1 On one occasion, while the crowd was pressing in on him to hear the word of God, he was standing by
the lake of Gennesaret,
Luk 5:2 and he saw two boats by the lake, but the fishermen had gone out of them and were washing their nets.
Luk 5:3 Getting into one of the boats, which was Simon's, he asked him to put out a little from the land. And he
sat down and taught the people from the boat.
Luk 5:4 And when he had finished speaking, he said to Simon, "Put out into the deep and let down your nets for
a catch."
Luk 5:5 And Simon answered, "Master, we toiled all night and took nothing! But at your word I will let down the
nets."
Luk 5:6 And when they had done this, they enclosed a large number of fish, and their nets were breaking.
Luk 5:7 They signaled to their partners in the other boat to come and help them. And they came and filled both
the boats, so that they began to sink.
Luk 5:8 But when Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, "Depart from me, for I am a sinful
man, O Lord."
Luk 5:9 For he and all who were with him were astonished at the catch of fish that they had taken,
Luk 5:10 and so also were James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said
to Simon, "Do not be afraid; from now on you will be catching men."
Luk 5:11 And when they had brought their boats to land, they left everything and followed him.
Luk 5:12 While he was in one of the cities, there came a man full of leprosy. And when he saw Jesus, he fell on
his face and begged him, "Lord, if you will, you can make me clean."Luk 5:13 And Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, "I will; be clean." And immediately the
leprosy left him.
Luk 5:14 And he charged him to tell no one, but "go and show yourself to the priest, and make an offering for
your cleansing, as Moses commanded, for a proof to them."
Luk 5:15 But now even more the report about him went abroad, and great crowds gathered to hear him and to
be healed of their infirmities.
Luk 5:16 But he would withdraw to desolate places and pray.
Luk 5:17 On one of those days, as he was teaching, Pharisees and teachers of the law were sitting there, who
had come from every village of Galilee and Judea and from Jerusalem. And the power of the Lord was with him
to heal.
Luk 5:18 And behold, some men were bringing on a bed a man who was paralyzed, and they were seeking to
bring him in and lay him before Jesus,
Luk 5:19 but finding no way to bring him in, because of the crowd, they went up on the roof and let him down
with his bed through the tiles into the midst before Jesus.
Luk 5:20 And when he saw their faith, he said, "Man, your sins are forgiven you."
Luk 5:21 And the scribes and the Pharisees began to question, saying, "Who is this who speaks blasphemies?
Who can forgive sins but God alone?"
Luk 5:22 When Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answered them, "Why do you question in your hearts?
Luk 5:23 Which is easier, to say, 'Your sins are forgiven you,' or to say, 'Rise and walk'?
Luk 5:24 But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins"- he said to the man
who was paralyzed- "I say to you, rise, pick up your bed and go home."
Luk 5:25 And immediately he rose up before them and picked up what he had been lying on and went home,
glorifying God.
Luk 5:26 And amazement seized them all, and they glorified God and were filled with awe, saying, "We have
seen extraordinary things today."
Luk 5:27 After this he went out and saw a tax collector named Levi, sitting at the tax booth. And he said to him,
"Follow me."
Luk 5:28 And leaving everything, he rose and followed him.
Luk 5:29 And Levi made him a great feast in his house, and there was a large company of tax collectors and
others reclining at table with them.
Luk 5:30 And the Pharisees and their scribes grumbled at his disciples, saying, "Why do you eat and drink with
tax collectors and sinners?"
Luk 5:31 And Jesus answered them, "Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick.
Luk 5:32 I have not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance."
Luk 5:33 And they said to him, "The disciples of John fast often and offer prayers, and so do the disciples of the
Pharisees, but yours eat and drink."
Luk 5:34 And Jesus said to them, "Can you make wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them?
Luk 5:35 The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in those
days."
Luk 5:36 He also told them a parable: "No one tears a piece from a new garment and puts it on an old garment.
If he does, he will tear the new, and the piece from the new will not match the old.
Luk 5:37 And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. If he does, the new wine will burst the skins and it will be
spilled, and the skins will be destroyed.
Luk 5:38 But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins.
Luk 5:39 And no one after drinking old wine desires new, for he says, 'The old is good.'"
Luk 6:1 On a Sabbath, while he was going through the grainfields, his disciples plucked and ate some heads of
grain, rubbing them in their hands.
Luk 6:2 But some of the Pharisees said, "Why are you doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath?"
Luk 6:3 And Jesus answered them, "Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, he and those who
were with him:
Luk 6:4 how he entered the house of God and took and ate the bread of the Presence, which is not lawful for
any but the priests to eat, and also gave it to those with him?"
Luk 6:5 And he said to them, "The Son of Man is lord of the Sabbath."
Luk 6:6 On another Sabbath, he entered the synagogue and was teaching, and a man was there whose right
hand was withered.
Luk 6:7 And the scribes and the Pharisees watched him, to see whether he would heal on the Sabbath, so that
they might find a reason to accuse him.
Luk 6:8 But he knew their thoughts, and he said to the man with the withered hand, "Come and stand here."
And he rose and stood there.Luk 6:9 And Jesus said to them, "I ask you, is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or
to destroy it?"
Luk 6:10 And after looking around at them all he said to him, "Stretch out your hand." And he did so, and his
hand was restored.
Luk 6:11 But they were filled with fury and discussed with one another what they might do to Jesus.
Luk 6:12 In these days he went out to the mountain to pray, and all night he continued in prayer to God.
Luk 6:13 And when day came, he called his disciples and chose from them twelve, whom he named apostles:
Luk 6:14 Simon, whom he named Peter, and Andrew his brother, and James and John, and Philip, and
Bartholomew,
Luk 6:15 and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon who was called the Zealot,
Luk 6:16 and Judas the son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor.
Luk 6:17 And he came down with them and stood on a level place, with a great crowd of his disciples and a
great multitude of people from all Judea and Jerusalem and the seacoast of Tyre and Sidon,
Luk 6:18 who came to hear him and to be healed of their diseases. And those who were troubled with unclean
spirits were cured.
Luk 6:19 And all the crowd sought to touch him, for power came out from him and healed them all.
Luk 6:20 And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said: "Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the
kingdom of God.
Luk 6:21 "Blessed are you who are hungry now, for you shall be satisfied. "Blessed are you who weep now, for
you shall laugh.
Luk 6:22 "Blessed are you when people hate you and when they exclude you and revile you and spurn your
name as evil, on account of the Son of Man!
Luk 6:23 Rejoice in that day, and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven; for so their fathers did
to the prophets.
Luk 6:24 "But woe to you who are rich, for you have received your consolation.
Luk 6:25 "Woe to you who are full now, for you shall be hungry. "Woe to you who laugh now, for you shall
mourn and weep.
Luk 6:26 "Woe to you, when all people speak well of you, for so their fathers did to the false prophets.
Luk 6:27 "But I say to you who hear, Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you,
Luk 6:28 bless those who curse you, pray for those who abuse you.
Luk 6:29 To one who strikes you on the cheek, offer the other also, and from one who takes away your cloak do
not withhold your tunic either.
Luk 6:30 Give to everyone who begs from you, and from one who takes away your goods do not demand them
back.
Luk 6:31 And as you wish that others would do to you, do so to them.
Luk 6:32 "If you love those who love you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love
them.
Luk 6:33 And if you do good to those who do good to you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners do the
same.
Luk 6:34 And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners
lend to sinners, to get back the same amount.
Luk 6:35 But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be
great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil.
Luk 6:36 Be merciful, even as your Father is merciful.
Luk 6:37 , "Judge not, and you will not be judged; condemn not, and you will not be condemned; forgive, and
you will be forgiven;
Luk 6:38 give, and it will be given to you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, will be
put into your lap. For with the measure you use it will be measured back to you."
Luk 6:39 He also told them a parable: "Can a blind man lead a blind man? Will they not both fall into a pit?
Luk 6:40 A disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone when he is fully trained will be like his teacher.
Luk 6:41 Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own
eye?
Luk 6:42 How can you say to your brother, 'Brother, let me take out the speck that is in your eye,' when you
yourself do not see the log that is in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and
then you will see clearly to take out the speck that is in your brother's eye.
Luk 6:43 "For no good tree bears bad fruit, nor again does a bad tree bear good fruit,
Luk 6:44 for each tree is known by its own fruit. For figs are not gathered from thornbushes, nor are grapes
picked from a bramble bush.
Luk 6:45 The good person out of the good treasure of his heart produces good, and the evil person out of hisevil treasure produces evil, for out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks.
Luk 6:46 "Why do you call me 'Lord, Lord,' and not do what I tell you?
Luk 6:47 Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you what he is like:
Luk 6:48 he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid the foundation on the rock. And when a flood
arose, the stream broke against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
Luk 6:49 But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house on the ground without a
foundation. When the stream broke against it, immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great."
Luk 7:1 After he had finished all his sayings in the hearing of the people, he entered Capernaum.
Luk 7:2 Now a centurion had a servant who was sick and at the point of death, who was highly valued by him.
Luk 7:3 When the centurion heard about Jesus, he sent to him elders of the Jews, asking him to come and heal
his servant.
Luk 7:4 And when they came to Jesus, they pleaded with him earnestly, saying, "He is worthy to have you do
this for him,
Luk 7:5 for he loves our nation, and he is the one who built us our synagogue."
Luk 7:6 And Jesus went with them. When he was not far from the house, the centurion sent friends, saying to
him, "Lord, do not trouble yourself, for I am not worthy to have you come under my roof.
Luk 7:7 Therefore I did not presume to come to you. But say the word, and let my servant be healed.
Luk 7:8 For I too am a man set under authority, with soldiers under me: and I say to one, 'Go,' and he goes; and
to another, 'Come,' and he comes; and to my servant, 'Do this,' and he does it."
Luk 7:9 When Jesus heard these things, he marveled at him, and turning to the crowd that followed him, said, "I
tell you, not even in Israel have I found such faith."
Luk 7:10 And when those who had been sent returned to the house, they found the servant well.
Luk 7:11 Soon afterward he went to a town called Nain, and his disciples and a great crowd went with him.
Luk 7:12 As he drew near to the gate of the town, behold, a man who had died was being carried out, the only
son of his mother, and she was a widow, and a considerable crowd from the town was with her.
Luk 7:13 And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her and said to her, "Do not weep."
Luk 7:14 Then he came up and touched the bier, and the bearers stood still. And he said, "Young man, I say to
you, arise."
Luk 7:15 And the dead man sat up and began to speak, and Jesus gave him to his mother.
Luk 7:16 Fear seized them all, and they glorified God, saying, "A great prophet has arisen among us!" and "God
has visited his people!"
Luk 7:17 And this report about him spread through the whole of Judea and all the surrounding country.
Luk 7:18 , The disciples of John reported all these things to him. And John,
Luk 7:19 calling two of his disciples to him, sent them to the Lord, saying, "Are you the one who is to come, or
shall we look for another?"
Luk 7:20 And when the men had come to him, they said, "John the Baptist has sent us to you, saying, 'Are you
the one who is to come, or shall we look for another?'"
Luk 7:21 In that hour he healed many people of diseases and plagues and evil spirits, and on many who were
blind he bestowed sight.
Luk 7:22 And he answered them, "Go and tell John what you have seen and heard: the blind receive their sight,
the lame walk, lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, the poor have good news
preached to them.
Luk 7:23 And blessed is the one who is not offended by me."
Luk 7:24 When John's messengers had gone, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John: "What did
you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind?
Luk 7:25 What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who are dressed in
splendid clothing and live in luxury are in kings' courts.
Luk 7:26 What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.
Luk 7:27 This is he of whom it is written, "' Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your
way before you.'
Luk 7:28 I tell you, among those born of women none is greater than John. Yet the one who is least in the
kingdom of God is greater than he."
Luk 7:29 ( When all the people heard this, and the tax collectors too, they declared God just, having been
baptized with the baptism of John,
Luk 7:30 but the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the purpose of God for themselves, not having been
baptized by him.)
Luk 7:31 "To what then shall I compare the people of this generation, and what are they like?
Luk 7:32 They are like children sitting in the marketplace and calling to one another, "' We played the flute for
you, and you did not dance; we sang a dirge, and you did not weep.'Luk 7:33 For John the Baptist has come eating no bread and drinking no wine, and you say, 'He has a demon.'
Luk 7:34 The Son of Man has come eating and drinking, and you say, 'Look at him! A glutton and a drunkard, a
friend of tax collectors and sinners!'
Luk 7:35 Yet wisdom is justified by all her children."
Luk 7:36 One of the Pharisees asked him to eat with him, and he went into the Pharisee's house and took his
place at the table.
Luk 7:37 And behold, a woman of the city, who was a sinner, when she learned that he was reclining at table in
the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster flask of ointment,
Luk 7:38 and standing behind him at his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears and wiped them
with the hair of her head and kissed his feet and anointed them with the ointment.
Luk 7:39 Now when the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself, "If this man were a prophet,
he would have known who and what sort of woman this is who is touching him, for she is a sinner."
Luk 7:40 And Jesus answering said to him, "Simon, I have something to say to you." And he answered, "Say it,
Teacher."
Luk 7:41 "A certain moneylender had two debtors. One owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty.
Luk 7:42 When they could not pay, he cancelled the debt of both. Now which of them will love him more?"
Luk 7:43 Simon answered, "The one, I suppose, for whom he cancelled the larger debt." And he said to him,
"You have judged rightly."
Luk 7:44 Then turning toward the woman he said to Simon, "Do you see this woman? I entered your house; you
gave me no water for my feet, but she has wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair.
Luk 7:45 You gave me no kiss, but from the time I came in she has not ceased to kiss my feet.
Luk 7:46 You did not anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment.
Luk 7:47 Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven- for she loved much. But he who is forgiven
little, loves little."
Luk 7:48 And he said to her, "Your sins are forgiven."
Luk 7:49 Then those who were at table with him began to say among themselves, "Who is this, who even
forgives sins?"
Luk 7:50 And he said to the woman, "Your faith has saved you; go in peace."
Luk 8:1 Soon afterward he went on through cities and villages, proclaiming and bringing the good news of the
kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him,
Luk 8:2 and also some women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities: Mary, called Magdalene, from
whom seven demons had gone out,
Luk 8:3 and Joanna, the wife of Chuza, Herod's household manager, and Susanna, and many others, who
provided for them out of their means.
Luk 8:4 And when a great crowd was gathering and people from town after town came to him, he said in a
parable:
Luk 8:5 "A sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some fell along the path and was trampled
underfoot, and the birds of the air devoured it.
Luk 8:6 And some fell on the rock, and as it grew up, it withered away, because it had no moisture.
Luk 8:7 And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up with it and choked it.
Luk 8:8 And some fell into good soil and grew and yielded a hundredfold." As he said these things, he called
out, "He who has ears to hear, let him hear."
Luk 8:9 And when his disciples asked him what this parable meant,
Luk 8:10 he said, "To you it has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of God, but for others they are in
parables, so that 'seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand.'
Luk 8:11 Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.
Luk 8:12 The ones along the path are those who have heard. Then the devil comes and takes away the word
from their hearts, so that they may not believe and be saved.
Luk 8:13 And the ones on the rock are those who, when they hear the word, receive it with joy. But these have
no root; they believe for a while, and in time of testing fall away.
Luk 8:14 And as for what fell among the thorns, they are those who hear, but as they go on their way they are
choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life, and their fruit does not mature.
Luk 8:15 As for that in the good soil, they are those who, hearing the word, hold it fast in an honest and good
heart, and bear fruit with patience.
Luk 8:16 , "No one after lighting a lamp covers it with a jar or puts it under a bed, but puts it on a stand, so that
those who enter may see the light.
Luk 8:17 For nothing is hidden that will not be made manifest, nor is anything secret that will not be known and
come to light.
Luk 8:18 Take care then how you hear, for to the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who hasnot, even what he thinks that he has will be taken away."
Luk 8:19 Then his mother and his brothers came to him, but they could not reach him because of the crowd.
Luk 8:20 And he was told, "Your mother and your brothers are standing outside, desiring to see you."
Luk 8:21 But he answered them, "My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it."
Luk 8:22 One day he got into a boat with his disciples, and he said to them, "Let us go across to the other side
of the lake." So they set out,
Luk 8:23 and as they sailed he fell asleep. And a windstorm came down on the lake, and they were filling with
water and were in danger.
Luk 8:24 And they went and woke him, saying, "Master, Master, we are perishing!" And he awoke and rebuked
the wind and the raging waves, and they ceased, and there was a calm.
Luk 8:25 He said to them, "Where is your faith?" And they were afraid, and they marveled, saying to one
another, "Who then is this, that he commands even winds and water, and they obey him?"
Luk 8:26 Then they sailed to the country of the Gerasenes, which is opposite Galilee.
Luk 8:27 When Jesus had stepped out on land, there met him a man from the city who had demons. For a long
time he had worn no clothes, and he had not lived in a house but among the tombs.
Luk 8:28 When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell down before him and said with a loud voice, "What have you
to do with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beg you, do not torment me."
Luk 8:29 For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. (For many a time it had seized him.
He was kept under guard and bound with chains and shackles, but he would break the bonds and be driven by
the demon into the desert.)
Luk 8:30 Jesus then asked him, "What is your name?" And he said, "Legion," for many demons had entered
him.
Luk 8:31 And they begged him not to command them to depart into the abyss.
Luk 8:32 Now a large herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside, and they begged him to let them enter
these. So he gave them permission.
Luk 8:33 Then the demons came out of the man and entered the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep
bank into the lake and were drowned.
Luk 8:34 When the herdsmen saw what had happened, they fled and told it in the city and in the country.
Luk 8:35 Then people went out to see what had happened, and they came to Jesus and found the man from
whom the demons had gone, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind, and they were afraid.
Luk 8:36 And those who had seen it told them how the demon-possessed man had been healed.
Luk 8:37 Then all the people of the surrounding country of the Gerasenes asked him to depart from them, for
they were seized with great fear. So he got into the boat and returned.
Luk 8:38 The man from whom the demons had gone begged that he might be with him, but Jesus sent him
away, saying,
Luk 8:39 "Return to your home, and declare how much God has done for you." And he went away, proclaiming
throughout the whole city how much Jesus had done for him.
Luk 8:40 Now when Jesus returned, the crowd welcomed him, for they were all waiting for him.
Luk 8:41 And there came a man named Jairus, who was a ruler of the synagogue. And falling at Jesus' feet, he
implored him to come to his house,
Luk 8:42 for he had an only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she was dying. As Jesus went, the people
pressed around him.
Luk 8:43 And there was a woman who had had a discharge of blood for twelve years, and though she had spent
all her living on physicians, she could not be healed by anyone.
Luk 8:44 She came up behind him and touched the fringe of his garment, and immediately her discharge of
blood ceased.
Luk 8:45 And Jesus said, "Who was it that touched me?" When all denied it, Peter said, "Master, the crowds
surround you and are pressing in on you!"
Luk 8:46 But Jesus said, "Someone touched me, for I perceive that power has gone out from me."
Luk 8:47 And when the woman saw that she was not hidden, she came trembling, and falling down before him
declared in the presence of all the people why she had touched him, and how she had been immediately healed.
Luk 8:48 And he said to her, "Daughter, your faith has made you well; go in peace."
Luk 8:49 While he was still speaking, someone from the ruler's house came and said, "Your daughter is dead;
do not trouble the Teacher any more."
Luk 8:50 But Jesus on hearing this answered him, "Do not fear; only believe, and she will be well."
Luk 8:51 And when he came to the house, he allowed no one to enter with him, except Peter and John and
James, and the father and mother of the child.
Luk 8:52 And all were weeping and mourning for her, but he said, "Do not weep, for she is not dead but
sleeping."Luk 8:53 And they laughed at him, knowing that she was dead.
Luk 8:54 But taking her by the hand he called, saying, "Child, arise."
Luk 8:55 And her spirit returned, and she got up at once. And he directed that something should be given her to
eat.
Luk 8:56 And her parents were amazed, but he charged them to tell no one what had happened.
Luk 9:1 And he called the twelve together and gave them power and authority over all demons and to cure
diseases,
Luk 9:2 and he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal.
Luk 9:3 And he said to them, "Take nothing for your journey, no staff, nor bag, nor bread, nor money; and do not
have two tunics.
Luk 9:4 And whatever house you enter, stay there, and from there depart.
Luk 9:5 And wherever they do not receive you, when you leave that town shake off the dust from your feet as a
testimony against them."
Luk 9:6 And they departed and went through the villages, preaching the gospel and healing everywhere.
Luk 9:7 Now Herod the tetrarch heard about all that was happening, and he was perplexed, because it was said
by some that John had been raised from the dead,
Luk 9:8 by some that Elijah had appeared, and by others that one of the prophets of old had risen.
Luk 9:9 Herod said, "John I beheaded, but who is this about whom I hear such things?" And he sought to see
him.
Luk 9:10 On their return the apostles told him all that they had done. And he took them and withdrew apart to a
town called Bethsaida.
Luk 9:11 When the crowds learned it, they followed him, and he welcomed them and spoke to them of the
kingdom of God and cured those who had need of healing.
Luk 9:12 Now the day began to wear away, and the twelve came and said to him, "Send the crowd away to go
into the surrounding villages and countryside to find lodging and get provisions, for we are here in a desolate
place."
Luk 9:13 But he said to them, "You give them something to eat." They said, "We have no more than five loaves
and two fish- unless we are to go and buy food for all these people."
Luk 9:14 For there were about five thousand men. And he said to his disciples, "Have them sit down in groups
of about fifty each."
Luk 9:15 And they did so, and had them all sit down.
Luk 9:16 And taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and said a blessing over them.
Then he broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to set before the crowd.
Luk 9:17 And they all ate and were satisfied. And what was left over was picked up, twelve baskets of broken
pieces.
Luk 9:18 Now it happened that as he was praying alone, the disciples were with him. And he asked them, "Who
do the crowds say that I am?"
Luk 9:19 And they answered, "John the Baptist. But others say, Elijah, and others, that one of the prophets of
old has risen."
Luk 9:20 Then he said to them, "But who do you say that I am?" And Peter answered, "The Christ of God."
Luk 9:21 And he strictly charged and commanded them to tell this to no one,
Luk 9:22 saying, "The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and
scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised."
Luk 9:23 And he said to all, "If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily
and follow me.
Luk 9:24 For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it.
Luk 9:25 For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses or forfeits himself?
Luk 9:26 For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words, of him will the Son of Man be ashamed when he
comes in his glory and the glory of the Father and of the holy angels.
Luk 9:27 But I tell you truly, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of
God."
Luk 9:28 Now about eight days after these sayings he took with him Peter and John and James and went up on
the mountain to pray.
Luk 9:29 And as he was praying, the appearance of his face was altered, and his clothing became dazzling
white.
Luk 9:30 And behold, two men were talking with him, Moses and Elijah,
Luk 9:31 who appeared in glory and spoke of his departure, which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem.
Luk 9:32 Now Peter and those who were with him were heavy with sleep, but when they became fully awake
they saw his glory and the two men who stood with him.Luk 9:33 And as the men were parting from him, Peter said to Jesus, "Master, it is good that we are here. Let us
make three tents, one for you and one for Moses and one for Elijah"- not knowing what he said.
Luk 9:34 As he was saying these things, a cloud came and overshadowed them, and they were afraid as they
entered the cloud.
Luk 9:35 And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, "This is my Son, my Chosen One; listen to him!"
Luk 9:36 And when the voice had spoken, Jesus was found alone. And they kept silent and told no one in those
days anything of what they had seen.
Luk 9:37 On the next day, when they had come down from the mountain, a great crowd met him.
Luk 9:38 And behold, a man from the crowd cried out, "Teacher, I beg you to look at my son, for he is my only
child.
Luk 9:39 And behold, a spirit seizes him, and he suddenly cries out. It convulses him so that he foams at the
mouth; and shatters him, and will hardly leave him.
Luk 9:40 And I begged your disciples to cast it out, but they could not."
Luk 9:41 Jesus answered, "O faithless and twisted generation, how long am I to be with you and bear with you?
Bring your son here."
Luk 9:42 While he was coming, the demon threw him to the ground and convulsed him. But Jesus rebuked the
unclean spirit and healed the boy, and gave him back to his father.
Luk 9:43 And all were astonished at the majesty of God. But while they were all marveling at everything he was
doing, Jesus said to his disciples,
Luk 9:44 "Let these words sink into your ears: The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men."
Luk 9:45 But they did not understand this saying, and it was concealed from them, so that they might not
perceive it. And they were afraid to ask him about this saying.
Luk 9:46 An argument arose among them as to which of them was the greatest.
Luk 9:47 But Jesus, knowing the reasoning of their hearts, took a child and put him by his side
Luk 9:48 and said to them, "Whoever receives this child in my name receives me, and whoever receives me
receives him who sent me. For he who is least among you all is the one who is great."
Luk 9:49 John answered, "Master, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we tried to stop
him, because he does not follow with us."
Luk 9:50 But Jesus said to him, "Do not stop him, for the one who is not against you is for you."
Luk 9:51 When the days drew near for him to be taken up, he set his face to go to Jerusalem.
Luk 9:52 And he sent messengers ahead of him, who went and entered a village of the Samaritans, to make
preparations for him.
Luk 9:53 But the people did not receive him, because his face was set toward Jerusalem.
Luk 9:54 And when his disciples James and John saw it, they said, "Lord, do you want us to tell fire to come
down from heaven and consume them?"
Luk 9:55 But he turned and rebuked them.
Luk 9:56 And they went on to another village.
Luk 9:57 As they were going along the road, someone said to him, "I will follow you wherever you go."
Luk 9:58 And Jesus said to him, "Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has
nowhere to lay his head."
Luk 9:59 To another he said, "Follow me." But he said, "Lord, let me first go and bury my father."
Luk 9:60 And Jesus said to him, "Leave the dead to bury their own dead. But as for you, go and proclaim the
kingdom of God."
Luk 9:61 Yet another said, "I will follow you, Lord, but let me first say farewell to those at my home."
Luk 9:62 Jesus said to him, "No one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God."
Luk 10:1 After this the Lord appointed seventy-two others and sent them on ahead of him, two by two, into every
town and place where he himself was about to go.
Luk 10:2 And he said to them, "The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore pray earnestly to the
Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.
Luk 10:3 Go your way; behold, I am sending you out as lambs in the midst of wolves.
Luk 10:4 Carry no moneybag, no knapsack, no sandals, and greet no one on the road.
Luk 10:5 Whatever house you enter, first say, 'Peace be to this house!'
Luk 10:6 And if a son of peace is there, your peace will rest upon him. But if not, it will return to you.
Luk 10:7 And remain in the same house, eating and drinking what they provide, for the laborer deserves his
wages. Do not go from house to house.
Luk 10:8 Whenever you enter a town and they receive you, eat what is set before you.
Luk 10:9 Heal the sick in it and say to them, 'The kingdom of God has come near to you.'
Luk 10:10 But whenever you enter a town and they do not receive you, go into its streets and say,
Luk 10:11 'Even the dust of your town that clings to our feet we wipe off against you. Nevertheless know this,that the kingdom of God has come near.'
Luk 10:12 I tell you, it will be more bearable on that day for Sodom than for that town.
Luk 10:13 "Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works done in you had been done in
Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
Luk 10:14 But it will be more bearable in the judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you.
Luk 10:15 And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You shall be brought down to Hades.
Luk 10:16 "The one who hears you hears me, and the one who rejects you re jects me, and the one who rejects
me rejects him who sent me."
Luk 10:17 The seventy-two returned with joy, saying, "Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name!"
Luk 10:18 And he said to them, "I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven.
Luk 10:19 Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the
enemy, and nothing shall hurt you.
Luk 10:20 Nevertheless, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are
written in heaven."
Luk 10:21 In that same hour he rejoiced in the Holy Spirit and said, "I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and
earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children;
yes, Father, for such was your gracious will.
Luk 10:22 All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows who the Son is except the
Father, or who the Father is except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him."
Luk 10:23 Then turning to the disciples he said privately, "Blessed are the eyes that see what you see!
Luk 10:24 For I tell you that many prophets and kings desired to see what you see, and did not see it, and to
hear what you hear, and did not hear it."
Luk 10:25 And behold, a lawyer stood up to put him to the test, saying, "Teacher, what shall I do to inherit
eternal life?"
Luk 10:26 He said to him, "What is written in the Law? How do you read it?"
Luk 10:27 And he answered, "You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and
with all your strength and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself."
Luk 10:28 And he said to him, "You have answered correctly; do this, and you will live."
Luk 10:29 But he, desiring to justify himself, said to Jesus, "And who is my neighbor?"
Luk 10:30 Jesus replied, "A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers, who
stripped him and beat him and departed, leaving him half dead.
Luk 10:31 Now by chance a priest was going down that road, and when he saw him he passed by on the other
side.
Luk 10:32 So likewise a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side.
Luk 10:33 But a Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to where he was, and when he saw him, he had
compassion.
Luk 10:34 He went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. Then he set him on his own
animal and brought him to an inn and took care of him.
Luk 10:35 And the next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper, saying, 'Take care of him,
and whatever more you spend, I will repay you when I come back.'
Luk 10:36 Which of these three, do you think, proved to be a neighbor to the man who fell among the robbers?"
Luk 10:37 He said, "The one who showed him mercy." And Jesus said to him, "You go, and do likewise."
Luk 10:38 Now as they went on their way, Jesus entered a village. And a woman named Martha welcomed him
into her house.
Luk 10:39 And she had a sister called Mary, who sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching.
Luk 10:40 But Martha was distracted with much serving. And she went up to him and said, "Lord, do you not
care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then to help me."
Luk 10:41 But the Lord answered her, "Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things,
Luk 10:42 but one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion, which will not be taken away from
her."
Luk 11:1 Now Jesus was praying in a certain place, and when he finished, one of his disciples said to him,
"Lord, teach us to pray, as John taught his disciples."
Luk 11:2 And he said to them, "When you pray, say: "Father, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come.
Luk 11:3 Give us each day our daily bread,
Luk 11:4 and forgive us our sins, for we ourselves forgive everyone who is indebted to us. And lead us not into
temptation."
Luk 11:5 And he said to them, "Which of you who has a friend will go to him at midnight and say to him, 'Friend,
lend me three loaves,
Luk 11:6 for a friend of mine has arrived on a journey, and I have nothing to set before him';Luk 11:7 and he will answer from within, 'Do not bother me; the door is now shut, and my children are with me in
bed. I cannot get up and give you anything'?
Luk 11:8 I tell you, though he will not get up and give him anything because he is his friend, yet because of his
impudence he will rise and give him whatever he needs.
Luk 11:9 And I tell you, ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to
you.
Luk 11:10 For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be
opened.
Luk 11:11 What father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will instead of a fish give him a serpent;
Luk 11:12 or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion?
Luk 11:13 If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the
heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!"
Luk 11:14 Now he was casting out a demon that was mute. When the demon had gone out, the mute man
spoke, and the people marveled.
Luk 11:15 But some of them said, "He casts out demons by Beelze-bul, the prince of demons,"
Luk 11:16 while others, to test him, kept seeking from him a sign from heaven.
Luk 11:17 But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, "Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and
a divided household falls.
Luk 11:18 And if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out
demons by Beelzebul.
Luk 11:19 And if I cast out demons by Beelzebul, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be
your judges.
Luk 11:20 But if it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
Luk 11:21 When a strong man, fully armed, guards his own palace, his goods are safe;
Luk 11:22 but when one stronger than he attacks him and overcomes him, he takes away his armor in which he
trusted and divides his spoil.
Luk 11:23 Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters.
Luk 11:24 "When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it passes through waterless places seeking rest,
and finding none it says, 'I will return to my house from which I came.'
Luk 11:25 And when it comes, it finds the house swept and put in order.
Luk 11:26 Then it goes and brings seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there. And
the last state of that person is worse than the first."
Luk 11:27 As he said these things, a woman in the crowd raised her voice and said to him, "Blessed is the
womb that bore you, and the breasts at which you nursed!"
Luk 11:28 But he said, "Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it!"
Luk 11:29 When the crowds were increasing, he began to say, "This generation is an evil generation. It seeks
for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah.
Luk 11:30 For as Jonah became a sign to the people of Nineveh, so will the Son of Man be to this generation.
Luk 11:31 The queen of the South will rise up at the judgment with the men of this generation and condemn
them, for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something greater
than Solomon is here.
Luk 11:32 The men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, for they
repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here.
Luk 11:33 "No one after lighting a lamp puts it in a cellar or under a basket, but on a stand, so that those who
enter may see the light.
Luk 11:34 Your eye is the lamp of your body. When your eye is healthy, your whole body is full of light, but when
it is bad, your body is full of darkness.
Luk 11:35 Therefore be careful lest the light in you be darkness.
Luk 11:36 If then your whole body is full of light, having no part dark, it will be wholly bright, as when a lamp with
its rays gives you light."
Luk 11:37 While Jesus was speaking, a Pharisee asked him to dine with him, so he went in and reclined at
table.
Luk 11:38 The Pharisee was astonished to see that he did not first wash before dinner.
Luk 11:39 And the Lord said to him, "Now you Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the dish, but
inside you are full of greed and wickedness.
Luk 11:40 You fools! Did not he who made the outside make the inside also?
Luk 11:41 But give as alms those things that are within, and behold, everything is clean for you.
Luk 11:42 "But woe to you Pharisees! For you tithe mint and rue and every herb, and neglect justice and the
love of God. These you ought to have done, without neglecting the others.Luk 11:43 Woe to you Pharisees! For you love the best seat in the synagogues and greetings in the
marketplaces.
Luk 11:44 Woe to you! For you are like unmarked graves, and people walk over them without knowing it."
Luk 11:45 One of the lawyers answered him, "Teacher, in saying these things you insult us also."
Luk 11:46 And he said, "Woe to you lawyers also! For you load people with burdens hard to bear, and you
yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers.
Luk 11:47 Woe to you! For you build the tombs of the prophets whom your fathers killed.
Luk 11:48 So you are witnesses and you consent to the deeds of your fathers, for they killed them, and you
build their tombs.
Luk 11:49 Therefore also the Wisdom of God said, 'I will send them prophets and apostles, some of whom they
will kill and persecute,'
Luk 11:50 so that the blood of all the prophets, shed from the foundation of the world, may be charged against
this generation,
Luk 11:51 from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary.
Yes, I tell you, it will be required of this generation.
Luk 11:52 Woe to you lawyers! For you have taken away the key of knowledge. You did not enter yourselves,
and you hindered those who were entering."
Luk 11:53 As he went away from there, the scribes and the Pharisees began to press him hard and to provoke
him to speak about many things,
Luk 11:54 lying in wait for him, to catch him in something he might say.
Luk 12:1 In the meantime, when so many thousands of the people had gathered together that they were
trampling one another, he began to say to his disciples first, "Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is
hypocrisy.
Luk 12:2 Nothing is covered up that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known.
Luk 12:3 Therefore whatever you have said in the dark shall be heard in the light, and what you have whispered
in private rooms shall be proclaimed on the housetops.
Luk 12:4 "I tell you, my friends, do not fear those who kill the body, and after that have nothing more that they
can do.
Luk 12:5 But I will warn you whom to fear: fear him who, after he has killed, has authority to cast into hell. Yes, I
tell you, fear him!
Luk 12:6 Are not five sparrows sold for two pennies? And not one of them is forgotten before God.
Luk 12:7 Why, even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not; you are of more value than many
sparrows.
Luk 12:8 "And I tell you, everyone who acknowledges me before men, the Son of Man also will acknowledge
before the angels of God,
Luk 12:9 but the one who denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God.
Luk 12:10 And everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but the one who
blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.
Luk 12:11 And when they bring you before the synagogues and the rulers and the authorities, do not be anxious
about how you should defend yourself or what you should say,
Luk 12:12 for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say."
Luk 12:13 Someone in the crowd said to him, "Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me."
Luk 12:14 But he said to him, "Man, who made me a judge or arbitrator over you?"
Luk 12:15 And he said to them, "Take care, and be on your guard against all covetousness, for one's life does
not consist in the abundance of his possessions."
Luk 12:16 And he told them a parable, saying, "The land of a rich man produced plentifully,
Luk 12:17 and he thought to himself, 'What shall I do, for I have nowhere to store my crops?'
Luk 12:18 And he said, 'I will do this: I will tear down my barns and build larger ones, and there I will store all my
grain and my goods.
Luk 12:19 And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years; relax, eat, drink, be
merry.'
Luk 12:20 But God said to him, 'Fool! This night your soul is required of you, and the things you have prepared,
whose will they be?'
Luk 12:21 So is the one who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God."
Luk 12:22 And he said to his disciples, "Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat,
nor about your body, what you will put on.
Luk 12:23 For life is more than food, and the body more than clothing.
Luk 12:24 Consider the ravens: they neither sow nor reap, they have neither storehouse nor barn, and yet God
feeds them. Of how much more value are you than the birds!Luk 12:25 And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his span of life?
Luk 12:26 If then you are not able to do as small a thing as that, why are you anxious about the rest?
Luk 12:27 Consider the lilies, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin, yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his
glory was not arrayed like one of these.
Luk 12:28 But if God so clothes the grass, which is alive in the field today, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven,
how much more will he clothe you, O you of little faith!
Luk 12:29 And do not seek what you are to eat and what you are to drink, nor be worried.
Luk 12:30 For all the nations of the world seek after these things, and your Father knows that you need them.
Luk 12:31 Instead, seek his kingdom, and these things will be added to you.
Luk 12:32 "Fear not, little flock, for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom.
Luk 12:33 Sell your possessions, and give to the needy. Provide yourselves with moneybags that do not grow
old, with a treasure in the heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys.
Luk 12:34 For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
Luk 12:35 "Stay dressed for action and keep your lamps burning,
Luk 12:36 and be like men who are waiting for their master to come home from the wedding feast, so that they
may open the door to him at once when he comes and knocks.
Luk 12:37 Blessed are those servants whom the master finds awake when he comes. Truly, I say to you, he will
dress himself for service and have them recline at table, and he will come and serve them.
Luk 12:38 If he comes in the second watch, or in the third, and finds them awake, blessed are those servants!
Luk 12:39 But know this, that if the master of the house had known at what hour the thief was coming, he would
not have left his house to be broken into.
Luk 12:40 You also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect."
Luk 12:41 Peter said, "Lord, are you telling this parable for us or for all?"
Luk 12:42 And the Lord said, "Who then is the faithful and wise manager, whom his master will set over his
household, to give them their portion of food at the proper time?
Luk 12:43 Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes.
Luk 12:44 Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions.
Luk 12:45 But if that servant says to himself, 'My master is delayed in coming,' and begins to beat the male and
female servants, and to eat and drink and get drunk,
Luk 12:46 the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he does
not know, and will cut him in pieces and put him with the unfaithful.
Luk 12:47 And that servant who knew his master's will but did not get ready or act according to his will, will
receive a severe beating.
Luk 12:48 But the one who did not know, and did what deserved a beating, will receive a light beating. Everyone
to whom much was given, of him much will be required, and from him to whom they entrusted much, they will
demand the more.
Luk 12:49 "I came to cast fire on the earth, and would that it were already kindled!
Luk 12:50 I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how great is my distress until it is accomplished!
Luk 12:51 Do you think that I have come to give peace on earth? No, I tell you, but rather division.
Luk 12:52 For from now on in one house there will be five divided, three against two and two against three.
Luk 12:53 They will be divided, father against son and son against father, mother against daughter and
daughter against mother, mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law."
Luk 12:54 He also said to the crowds, "When you see a cloud rising in the west, you say at once, 'A shower is
coming.' And so it happens.
Luk 12:55 And when you see the south wind blowing, you say, 'There will be scorching heat,' and it happens.
Luk 12:56 You hypocrites! You know how to interpret the appearance of earth and sky, but why do you not know
how to interpret the present time?
Luk 12:57 "And why do you not judge for yourselves what is right?
Luk 12:58 As you go with your accuser before the magistrate, make an effort to settle with him on the way, lest
he drag you to the judge, and the judge hand you over to the officer, and the officer put you in prison.
Luk 12:59 I tell you, you will never get out until you have paid the very last penny."
Luk 13:1 There were some present at that very time who told him about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had
mingled with their sacrifices.
Luk 13:2 And he answered them, "Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other
Galileans, because they suffered in this way?
Luk 13:3 No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish.
Luk 13:4 Or those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell and killed them: do you think that they were worse
offenders than all the others who lived in Jerusalem?
Luk 13:5 No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish."Luk 13:6 And he told this parable: "A man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit on it
and found none.
Luk 13:7 And he said to the vinedresser, 'Look, for three years now I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree,
and I find none. Cut it down. Why should it use up the ground?'
Luk 13:8 And he answered him, 'Sir, let it alone this year also, until I dig around it and put on manure.
Luk 13:9 Then if it should bear fruit next year, well and good; but if not, you can cut it down.'"
Luk 13:10 Now he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath.
Luk 13:11 And there was a woman who had had a disabling spirit for eighteen years. She was bent over and
could not fully straighten herself.
Luk 13:12 When Jesus saw her, he called her over and said to her, "Woman, you are freed from your disability."
Luk 13:13 And he laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made straight, and she glorified God.
Luk 13:14 But the ruler of the synagogue, indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, said to the
people, "There are six days in which work ought to be done. Come on those days and be healed, and not on the
Sabbath day."
Luk 13:15 Then the Lord answered him, "You hypocrites! Does not each of you on the Sabbath untie his ox or
his donkey from the manger and lead it away to water it?
Luk 13:16 And ought not this woman, a daughter of Abraham whom Satan bound for eighteen years, be loosed
from this bond on the Sabbath day?"
Luk 13:17 As he said these things, all his adversaries were put to shame, and all the people rejoiced at all the
glorious things that were done by him.
Luk 13:18 He said therefore, "What is the kingdom of God like? And to what shall I compare it?
Luk 13:19 It is like a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his garden, and it grew and became a
tree, and the birds of the air made nests in its branches."
Luk 13:20 And again he said, "To what shall I compare the kingdom of God?
Luk 13:21 It is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, until it was all leavened."
Luk 13:22 He went on his way through towns and villages, teaching and journeying toward Jerusalem.
Luk 13:23 And someone said to him, "Lord, will those who are saved be few?" And he said to them,
Luk 13:24 "Strive to enter through the narrow door. For many, I tell you, will seek to enter and will not be able.
Luk 13:25 When once the master of the house has risen and shut the door, and you begin to stand outside and
to knock at the door, saying, 'Lord, open to us,' then he will answer you, 'I do not know where you come from.'
Luk 13:26 Then you will begin to say, 'We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets.'
Luk 13:27 But he will say, 'I tell you, I do not know where you come from. Depart from me, all you workers of
evil!'
Luk 13:28 In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when you see Abraham and Isaac and
Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God but you yourselves cast out.
Luk 13:29 And people will come from east and west, and from north and south, and recline at table in the
kingdom of God.
Luk 13:30 And behold, some are last who will be first, and some are first who will be last."
Luk 13:31 At that very hour some Pharisees came and said to him, "Get away from here, for Herod wants to kill
you."
Luk 13:32 And he said to them, "Go and tell that fox, 'Behold, I cast out demons and perform cures today and
tomorrow, and the third day I finish my course.
Luk 13:33 Nevertheless, I must go on my way today and tomorrow and the day following, for it cannot be that a
prophet should perish away from Jerusalem.'
Luk 13:34 O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it! How
often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you would
not!
Luk 13:35 Behold, your house is forsaken. And I tell you, you will not see me until you say, 'Blessed is he who
comes in the name of the Lord!'"
Luk 14:1 One Sabbath, when he went to dine at the house of a ruler of the Pharisees, they were watching him
carefully.
Luk 14:2 And behold, there was a man before him who had dropsy.
Luk 14:3 And Jesus responded to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, "Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath, or
not?"
Luk 14:4 But they remained silent. Then he took him and healed him and sent him away.
Luk 14:5 And he said to them, "Which of you, having a son or an ox that has fallen into a well on a Sabbath day,
will not immediately pull him out?"
Luk 14:6 And they could not reply to these things.
Luk 14:7 Now he told a parable to those who were invited, when he noticed how they chose the places of honor,saying to them,
Luk 14:8 "When you are invited by someone to a wedding feast, do not sit down in a place of honor, lest
someone more distinguished than you be invited by him,
Luk 14:9 and he who invited you both will come and say to you, 'Give your place to this person,' and then you
will begin with shame to take the lowest place.
Luk 14:10 But when you are invited, go and sit in the lowest place, so that when your host comes he may say to
you, 'Friend, move up higher.' Then you will be honored in the presence of all who sit at table with you.
Luk 14:11 For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted."
Luk 14:12 He said also to the man who had invited him, "When you give a dinner or a banquet, do not invite
your friends or your brothers or your relatives or rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return and you be
repaid.
Luk 14:13 But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind,
Luk 14:14 and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you. You will be repaid at the resurrection of the
just."
Luk 14:15 When one of those who reclined at table with him heard these things, he said to him, "Blessed is
everyone who will eat bread in the kingdom of God!"
Luk 14:16 But he said to him, "A man once gave a great banquet and invited many.
Luk 14:17 And at the time for the banquet he sent his servant to say to those who had been invited, 'Come, for
everything is now ready.'
Luk 14:18 But they all alike began to make excuses. The first said to him, 'I have bought a field, and I must go
out and see it. Please have me excused.'
Luk 14:19 And another said, 'I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to examine them. Please have me
excused.'
Luk 14:20 And another said, 'I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come.'
Luk 14:21 So the servant came and reported these things to his master. Then the master of the house became
angry and said to his servant, 'Go out quickly to the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in the poor and
crippled and blind and lame.'
Luk 14:22 And the servant said, 'Sir, what you commanded has been done, and still there is room.'
Luk 14:23 And the master said to the servant, 'Go out to the highways and hedges and compel people to come
in, that my house may be filled.
Luk 14:24 For I tell you, none of those men who were invited shall taste my banquet.'"
Luk 14:25 Now great crowds accompanied him, and he turned and said to them,
Luk 14:26 "If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and
brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple.
Luk 14:27 Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple.
Luk 14:28 For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has
enough to complete it?
Luk 14:29 Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who see it begin to mock him,
Luk 14:30 saying, 'This man began to build and was not able to finish.'
Luk 14:31 Or what king, going out to encounter another king in war, will not sit down first and deliberate whether
he is able with ten thousand to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand?
Luk 14:32 And if not, while the other is yet a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks for terms of peace.
Luk 14:33 So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple.
Luk 14:34 "Salt is good, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored?
Luk 14:35 It is of no use either for the soil or for the manure pile. It is thrown away. He who has ears to hear, let
him hear."
Luk 15:1 Now the tax collectors and sinners were all drawing near to hear him.
Luk 15:2 And the Pharisees and the scribes grumbled, saying, "This man receives sinners and eats with them."
Luk 15:3 So he told them this parable:
Luk 15:4 "What man of you, having a hundred sheep, if he has lost one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine
in the open country, and go after the one that is lost, until he finds it?
Luk 15:5 And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
Luk 15:6 And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, 'Rejoice
with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost.'
Luk 15:7 Just so, I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine
righteous persons who need no repentance.
Luk 15:8 "Or what woman, having ten silver coins, if she loses one coin, does not light a lamp and sweep the
house and seek diligently until she finds it?
Luk 15:9 And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, 'Rejoice with me, for Ihave found the coin that I had lost.'
Luk 15:10 Just so, I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents."
Luk 15:11 And he said, "There was a man who had two sons.
Luk 15:12 And the younger of them said to his father, 'Father, give me the share of property that is coming to
me.' And he divided his property between them.
Luk 15:13 Not many days later, the younger son gathered all he had and took a journey into a far country, and
there he squandered his property in reckless living.
Luk 15:14 And when he had spent everything, a severe famine arose in that country, and he began to be in
need.
Luk 15:15 So he went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country, who sent him into his fields to
feed pigs.
Luk 15:16 And he was longing to be fed with the pods that the pigs ate, and no one gave him anything.
Luk 15:17 "But when he came to himself, he said, 'How many of my father's hired servants have more than
enough bread, but I perish here with hunger!
Luk 15:18 I will arise and go to my father, and I will say to him, "Father, I have sinned against heaven and
before you.
Luk 15:19 I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Treat me as one of your hired servants."'
Luk 15:20 And he arose and came to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt
compassion, and ran and embraced him and kissed him.
Luk 15:21 And the son said to him, 'Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. I am no longer worthy
to be called your son.'
Luk 15:22 But the father said to his servants, 'Bring quickly the best robe, and put it on him, and put a ring on
his hand, and shoes on his feet.
Luk 15:23 And bring the fattened calf and kill it, and let us eat and celebrate.
Luk 15:24 For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found.' And they began to celebrate.
Luk 15:25 "Now his older son was in the field, and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and
dancing.
Luk 15:26 And he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant.
Luk 15:27 And he said to him, 'Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf, because he
has received him back safe and sound.'
Luk 15:28 But he was angry and refused to go in. His father came out and entreated him,
Luk 15:29 but he answered his father, 'Look, these many years I have served you, and I never disobeyed your
command, yet you never gave me a young goat, that I might celebrate with my friends.
Luk 15:30 But when this son of yours came, who has devoured your property with prostitutes, you killed the
fattened calf for him!'
Luk 15:31 And he said to him, 'Son, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours.
Luk 15:32 It was fitting to celebrate and be glad, for this your brother was dead, and is alive; he was lost, and is
found.'"
Luk 16:1 He also said to the disciples, "There was a rich man who had a manager, and charges were brought to
him that this man was wasting his possessions.
Luk 16:2 And he called him and said to him, 'What is this that I hear about you? Turn in the account of your
management, for you can no longer be manager.'
Luk 16:3 And the manager said to himself, 'What shall I do, since my master is taking the management away
from me? I am not strong enough to dig, and I am ashamed to beg.
Luk 16:4 I have decided what to do, so that when I am removed from management, people may receive me into
their houses.'
Luk 16:5 So, summoning his master's debtors one by one, he said to the first, 'How much do you owe my
master?'
Luk 16:6 He said, 'A hundred measures of oil.' He said to him, 'Take your bill, and sit down quickly and write
fifty.'
Luk 16:7 Then he said to another, 'And how much do you owe?' He said, 'A hundred measures of wheat.' He
said to him, 'Take your bill, and write eighty.'
Luk 16:8 The master commended the dishonest manager for his shrewdness. For the sons of this world are
more shrewd in dealing with their own generation than the sons of light.
Luk 16:9 And I tell you, make friends for yourselves by means of unrighteous wealth, so that when it fails they
may receive you into the eternal dwellings.
Luk 16:10 "One who is faithful in a very little is also faithful in much, and one who is dishonest in a very little is
also dishonest in much.
Luk 16:11 If then you have not been faithful in the unrighteous wealth, who will entrust to you the true riches?Luk 16:12 And if you have not been faithful in that which is another's, who will give you that which is your own?
Luk 16:13 No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be
devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money."
Luk 16:14 The Pharisees, who were lovers of money, heard all these things, and they ridiculed him.
Luk 16:15 And he said to them, "You are those who justify yourselves before men, but God knows your hearts.
For what is exalted among men is an abomination in the sight of God.
Luk 16:16 "The Law and the Prophets were until John; since then the good news of the kingdom of God is
preached, and everyone forces his way into it.
Luk 16:17 But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one dot of the Law to become void.
Luk 16:18 "Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and he who marries a
woman divorced from her husband commits adultery.
Luk 16:19 "There was a rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen and who feasted sumptuously every
day.
Luk 16:20 And at his gate was laid a poor man named Lazarus, covered with sores,
Luk 16:21 who desired to be fed with what fell from the rich man's table. Moreover, even the dogs came and
licked his sores.
Luk 16:22 The poor man died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's side. The rich man also died and was
buried,
Luk 16:23 and in Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off and Lazarus at his
side.
Luk 16:24 And he called out, 'Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus to dip the end of his finger
in water and cool my tongue, for I am in anguish in this flame.'
Luk 16:25 But Abraham said, 'Child, remember that you in your lifetime received your good things, and Lazarus
in like manner bad things; but now he is comforted here, and you are in anguish.
Luk 16:26 And besides all this, between us and you a great chasm has been fixed, in order that those who
would pass from here to you may not be able, and none may cross from there to us.'
Luk 16:27 And he said, 'Then I beg you, father, to send him to my father's houseLuk 16:28 for I have five brothers- so that he may warn them, lest they also come into this place of torment.'
Luk 16:29 But Abraham said, 'They have Moses and the Prophets; let them hear them.'
Luk 16:30 And he said, 'No, father Abraham, but if someone goes to them from the dead, they will repent.'
Luk 16:31 He said to him, 'If they do not hear Moses and the Prophets, neither will they be convinced if
someone should rise from the dead.'"
Luk 17:1 And he said to his disciples, "Temptations to sin are sure to come, but woe to the one through whom
they come!
Luk 17:2 It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were cast into the sea than
that he should cause one of these little ones to sin.
Luk 17:3 Pay attention to yourselves! If your brother sins, rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him,
Luk 17:4 and if he sins against you seven times in the day, and turns to you seven times, saying, 'I repent,' you
must forgive him."
Luk 17:5 The apostles said to the Lord, "Increase our faith!"
Luk 17:6 And the Lord said, "If you had faith like a grain of mustard seed, you could say to this mulberry tree,
'Be uprooted and planted in the sea,' and it would obey you.
Luk 17:7 "Will any one of you who has a servant plowing or keeping sheep say to him when he has come in
from the field, 'Come at once and sit down at table'?
Luk 17:8 Will he not rather say to him, 'Prepare supper for me, and dress properly, and serve me while I eat and
drink, and afterward you will eat and drink'?
Luk 17:9 Does he thank the servant because he did what was commanded?
Luk 17:10 So you also, when you have done all that you were commanded, say, 'We are unworthy servants; we
have only done what was our duty.'"
Luk 17:11 On the way to Jerusalem he was passing along between Samaria and Galilee.
Luk 17:12 And as he entered a village, he was met by ten lepers, who stood at a distance
Luk 17:13 and lifted up their voices, saying, "Jesus, Master, have mercy on us."
Luk 17:14 When he saw them he said to them, "Go and show yourselves to the priests." And as they went they
were cleansed.
Luk 17:15 Then one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, praising God with a loud voice;
Luk 17:16 and he fell on his face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks. Now he was a Samaritan.
Luk 17:17 Then Jesus answered, "Were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine?
Luk 17:18 Was no one found to return and give praise to God except this foreigner?"
Luk 17:19 And he said to him, "Rise and go your way; your faith has made you well."Luk 17:20 Being asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, he answered them, "The
kingdom of God is not coming with signs to be observed,
Luk 17:21 nor will they say, 'Look, here it is!' or 'There!' for behold, the kingdom of God is in the midst of you."
Luk 17:22 And he said to the disciples, "The days are coming when you will desire to see one of the days of the
Son of Man, and you will not see it.
Luk 17:23 And they will say to you, 'Look, there!' or 'Look, here!' Do not go out or follow them.
Luk 17:24 For as the lightning flashes and lights up the sky from one side to the other, so will the Son of Man be
in his day.
Luk 17:25 But first he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation.
Luk 17:26 Just as it was in the days of Noah, so will it be in the days of the Son of Man.
Luk 17:27 They were eating and drinking and marrying and being given in marriage, until the day when Noah
entered the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all.
Luk 17:28 Likewise, just as it was in the days of Lot- they were eating and drinking, buying and selling, planting
and building,
Luk 17:29 but on the day when Lot went out from Sodom, fire and sulfur rained from heaven and destroyed
them allLuk 17:30 so will it be on the day when the Son of Man is revealed.
Luk 17:31 On that day, let the one who is on the housetop, with his goods in the house, not come down to take
them away, and likewise let the one who is in the field not turn back.
Luk 17:32 Remember Lot's wife.
Luk 17:33 Whoever seeks to preserve his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life will keep it.
Luk 17:34 I tell you, in that night there will be two in one bed. One will be taken and the other left.
Luk 17:35 There will be two women grinding together. One will be taken and the other left."
Luk 17:36
Luk 17:37 And they said to him, "Where, Lord?" He said to them, "Where the corpse is, there the vultures will
gather."
Luk 18:1 And he told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray and not lose heart.
Luk 18:2 He said, "In a certain city there was a judge who neither feared God nor respected man.
Luk 18:3 And there was a widow in that city who kept coming to him and saying, 'Give me justice against my
adversary.'
Luk 18:4 For a while he refused, but afterward he said to himself, 'Though I neither fear God nor respect man,
Luk 18:5 yet because this widow keeps bothering me, I will give her justice, so that she will not beat me down by
her continual coming.'"
Luk 18:6 And the Lord said, "Hear what the unrighteous judge says.
Luk 18:7 And will not God give justice to his elect, who cry to him day and night?, Will he delay long over them?
Luk 18:8 I tell you, he will give justice to them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find
faith on earth?"
Luk 18:9 He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and treated
others with contempt:
Luk 18:10 "Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector.
Luk 18:11 The Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus: 'God, I thank you that I am not like other men,
extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector.
Luk 18:12 I fast twice a week; I give tithes of all that I get.'
Luk 18:13 But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast,
saying, 'God, be merciful to me, a sinner!'
Luk 18:14 I tell you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other. For everyone who exalts
himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted."
Luk 18:15 Now they were bringing even infants to him that he might touch them. And when the disciples saw it,
they rebuked them.
Luk 18:16 But Jesus called them to him, saying, "Let the children come to me, and do not hinder them, for to
such belongs the kingdom of God.
Luk 18:17 Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it."
Luk 18:18 And a ruler asked him, "Good Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?"
Luk 18:19 And Jesus said to him, "Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone.
Luk 18:20 You know the commandments: 'Do not commit adultery, Do not murder, Do not steal, Do not bear
false witness, Honor your father and mother.'"
Luk 18:21 And he said, "All these I have kept from my youth."
Luk 18:22 When Jesus heard this, he said to him, "One thing you still lack. Sell all that you have and distribute
to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me."Luk 18:23 But when he heard these things, he became very sad, for he was extremely rich.
Luk 18:24 Jesus, looking at him with sadness, said, "How difficult it is for those who have wealth to enter the
kingdom of God!
Luk 18:25 For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the
kingdom of God."
Luk 18:26 Those who heard it said, "Then who can be saved?"
Luk 18:27 But he said, "What is impossible with men is possible with God."
Luk 18:28 And Peter said, "See, we have left our homes and followed you."
Luk 18:29 And he said to them, "Truly, I say to you, there is no one who has left house or wife or brothers or
parents or children, for the sake of the kingdom of God,
Luk 18:30 who will not receive many times more in this time, and in the age to come eternal life."
Luk 18:31 And taking the twelve, he said to them, "See, we are going up to Jerusalem, and everything that is
written about the Son of Man by the prophets will be accomplished.
Luk 18:32 For he will be delivered over to the Gentiles and will be mocked and shamefully treated and spit
upon.
Luk 18:33 And after flogging him, they will kill him, and on the third day he will rise."
Luk 18:34 But they understood none of these things. This saying was hidden from them, and they did not grasp
what was said.
Luk 18:35 As he drew near to Jericho, a blind man was sitting by the roadside begging.
Luk 18:36 And hearing a crowd going by, he inquired what this meant.
Luk 18:37 They told him, "Jesus of Nazareth is passing by."
Luk 18:38 And he cried out, "Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!"
Luk 18:39 And those who were in front rebuked him, telling him to be silent. But he cried out all the more, "Son
of David, have mercy on me!"
Luk 18:40 And Jesus stopped and commanded him to be brought to him. And when he came near, he asked
him,
Luk 18:41 "What do you want me to do for you?" He said, "Lord, let me recover my sight."
Luk 18:42 And Jesus said to him, "Recover your sight; your faith has made you well."
Luk 18:43 And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him, glorifying God. And all the people, when
they saw it, gave praise to God.
Luk 19:1 He entered Jericho and was passing through.
Luk 19:2 And there was a man named Zacchaeus. He was a chief tax collector and was rich.
Luk 19:3 And he was seeking to see who Jesus was, but on account of the crowd he could not, because he was
small of stature.
Luk 19:4 So he ran on ahead and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was about to pass that
way.
Luk 19:5 And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and said to him, "Zacchaeus, hurry and come down,
for I must stay at your house today."
Luk 19:6 So he hurried and came down and received him joyfully.
Luk 19:7 And when they saw it, they all grumbled, "He has gone in to be the guest of a man who is a sinner."
Luk 19:8 And Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, "Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. And
if I have defrauded anyone of anything, I restore it fourfold."
Luk 19:9 And Jesus said to him, "Today salvation has come to this house, since he also is a son of Abraham.
Luk 19:10 For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost."
Luk 19:11 As they heard these things, he proceeded to tell a parable, because he was near to Jerusalem, and
because they supposed that the kingdom of God was to appear immediately.
Luk 19:12 He said therefore, "A nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and then
return.
Luk 19:13 Calling ten of his servants, he gave them ten minas, and said to them, 'Engage in business until I
come.'
Luk 19:14 But his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him, saying, 'We do not want this man to reign
over us.'
Luk 19:15 When he returned, having received the kingdom, he ordered these servants to whom he had given
the money to be called to him, that he might know what they had gained by doing business.
Luk 19:16 The first came before him, saying, 'Lord, your mina has made ten minas more.'
Luk 19:17 And he said to him, 'Well done, good servant! Because you have been faithful in a very little, you
shall have authority over ten cities.'
Luk 19:18 And the second came, saying, 'Lord, your mina has made five minas.'
Luk 19:19 And he said to him, 'And you are to be over five cities.'Luk 19:20 Then another came, saying, 'Lord, here is your mina, which I kept laid away in a handkerchief;
Luk 19:21 for I was afraid of you, because you are a severe man. You take what you did not deposit, and reap
what you did not sow.'
Luk 19:22 He said to him, 'I will condemn you with your own words, you wicked servant! You knew that I was a
severe man, taking what I did not deposit and reaping what I did not sow?
Luk 19:23 Why then did you not put my money in the bank, and at my coming I might have collected it with
interest?'
Luk 19:24 And he said to those who stood by, 'Take the mina from him, and give it to the one who has the ten
minas.'
Luk 19:25 And they said to him, 'Lord, he has ten minas!'
Luk 19:26 'I tell you that to everyone who has, more will be given, but from the one who has not, even what he
has will be taken away.
Luk 19:27 But as for these enemies of mine, who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and
slaughter them before me.'"
Luk 19:28 And when he had said these things, he went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem.
Luk 19:29 When he drew near to Bethphage and Bethany, at the mount that is called Olivet, he sent two of the
disciples,
Luk 19:30 saying, "Go into the village in front of you, where on entering you will find a colt tied, on which no one
has ever yet sat. Untie it and bring it here.
Luk 19:31 If anyone asks you, 'Why are you untying it?' you shall say this: 'The Lord has need of it.'"
Luk 19:32 So those who were sent went away and found it just as he had told them.
Luk 19:33 And as they were untying the colt, its owners said to them, "Why are you untying the colt?"
Luk 19:34 And they said, "The Lord has need of it."
Luk 19:35 And they brought it to Jesus, and throwing their cloaks on the colt, they set Jesus on it.
Luk 19:36 And as he rode along, they spread their cloaks on the road.
Luk 19:37 As he was drawing near- already on the way down the Mount of Olives- the whole multitude of his
disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen,
Luk 19:38 saying, "Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord! Peace in heaven and glory in the
highest!"
Luk 19:39 And some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to him, "Teacher, rebuke your disciples."
Luk 19:40 He answered, "I tell you, if these were silent, the very stones would cry out."
Luk 19:41 And when he drew near and saw the city, he wept over it,
Luk 19:42 saying, "Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace! But now
they are hidden from your eyes.
Luk 19:43 For the days will come upon you, when your enemies will set up a barricade around you and
surround you and hem you in on every side
Luk 19:44 and tear you down to the ground, you and your children within you. And they will not leave one stone
upon another in you, because you did not know the time of your visitation."
Luk 19:45 And he entered the temple and began to drive out those who sold,
Luk 19:46 saying to them, "It is written, 'My house shall be a house of prayer,' but you have made it a den of
robbers."
Luk 19:47 And he was teaching daily in the temple. The chief priests and the scribes and the principal men of
the people were seeking to destroy him,
Luk 19:48 but they did not find anything they could do, for all the people were hanging on his words.
Luk 20:1 One day, as Jesus was teaching the people in the temple and preaching the gospel, the chief priests
and the scribes with the elders came up
Luk 20:2 and said to him, "Tell us by what authority you do these things, or who it is that gave you this
authority."
Luk 20:3 He answered them, "I also will ask you a question. Now tell me,
Luk 20:4 Was the baptism of John from heaven or from man?"
Luk 20:5 And they discussed it with one another, saying, "If we say, 'From heaven,' he will say, 'Why did you not
believe him?'
Luk 20:6 But if we say, 'From man,' all the people will stone us to death, for they are convinced that John was a
prophet."
Luk 20:7 So they answered that they did not know where it came from.
Luk 20:8 And Jesus said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things."
Luk 20:9 And he began to tell the people this parable: "A man planted a vineyard and let it out to tenants and
went into another country for a long while.
Luk 20:10 When the time came, he sent a servant to the tenants, so that they would give him some of the fruit ofthe vineyard. But the tenants beat him and sent him away empty-handed.
Luk 20:11 And he sent another servant. But they also beat and treated him shamefully, and sent him away
empty-handed.
Luk 20:12 And he sent yet a third. This one also they wounded and cast out.
Luk 20:13 Then the owner of the vineyard said, 'What shall I do? I will send my beloved son; perhaps they will
respect him.'
Luk 20:14 But when the tenants saw him, they said to themselves, 'This is the heir. Let us kill him, so that the
inheritance may be ours.'
Luk 20:15 And they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. What then will the owner of the vineyard do to
them?
Luk 20:16 He will come and destroy those tenants and give the vineyard to others." When they heard this, they
said, "Surely not!"
Luk 20:17 But he looked directly at them and said, "What then is this that is written: "' The stone that the builders
rejected has become the cornerstone'?
Luk 20:18 Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces, and when it falls on anyone, it will crush
him."
Luk 20:19 The scribes and the chief priests sought to lay hands on him at that very hour, for they perceived that
he had told this parable against them, but they feared the people.
Luk 20:20 So they watched him and sent spies, who pretended to be sincere, that they might catch him in
something he said, so as to deliver him up to the authority and jurisdiction of the governor.
Luk 20:21 So they asked him, "Teacher, we know that you speak and teach rightly, and show no partiality, but
truly teach the way of God.
Luk 20:22 Is it lawful for us to give tribute to Caesar, or not?"
Luk 20:23 But he perceived their craftiness, and said to them,
Luk 20:24 "Show me a denarius. Whose likeness and inscription does it have?" They said, "Caesar's."
Luk 20:25 He said to them, "Then render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are
God's."
Luk 20:26 And they were not able in the presence of the people to catch him in what he said, but marveling at
his answer they became silent.
Luk 20:27 There came to him some Sadducees, those who deny that there is a resurrection,
Luk 20:28 and they asked him a question, saying, "Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies,
having a wife but no children, the man must take the widow and raise up offspring for his brother.
Luk 20:29 Now there were seven brothers. The first took a wife, and died without children.
Luk 20:30 And the second
Luk 20:31 and the third took her, and likewise all seven left no children and died.
Luk 20:32 Afterward the woman also died.
Luk 20:33 In the resurrection, therefore, whose wife will the woman be? For the seven had her as wife."
Luk 20:34 And Jesus said to them, "The sons of this age marry and are given in marriage,
Luk 20:35 but those who are considered worthy to attain to that age and to the resurrection from the dead
neither marry nor are given in marriage,
Luk 20:36 for they cannot die anymore, because they are equal to angels and are sons of God, being sons of
the resurrection.
Luk 20:37 But that the dead are raised, even Moses showed, in the passage about the bush, where he calls the
Lord the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob.
Luk 20:38 Now he is not God of the dead, but of the living, for all live to him."
Luk 20:39 Then some of the scribes answered, "Teacher, you have spoken well."
Luk 20:40 For they no longer dared to ask him any question.
Luk 20:41 But he said to them, "How can they say that the Christ is David's son?
Luk 20:42 For David himself says in the Book of Psalms, "' The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand,
Luk 20:43 until I make your enemies your footstool.'
Luk 20:44 David thus calls him Lord, so how is he his son?"
Luk 20:45 And in the hearing of all the people he said to his disciples,
Luk 20:46 "Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and love greetings in the marketplaces
and the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at feasts,
Luk 20:47 who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater
condemnation."
Luk 21:1 Jesus looked up and saw the rich putting their gifts into the offering box,
Luk 21:2 and he saw a poor widow put in two small copper coins.
Luk 21:3 And he said, "Truly, I tell you, this poor widow has put in more than all of them.Luk 21:4 For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty put in all she had to live on."
Luk 21:5 And while some were speaking of the temple, how it was adorned with noble stones and offerings, he
said,
Luk 21:6 "As for these things that you see, the days will come when there will not be left here one stone upon
another that will not be thrown down."
Luk 21:7 And they asked him, "Teacher, when will these things be, and what will be the sign when these things
are about to take place?"
Luk 21:8 And he said, "See that you are not led astray. For many will come in my name, saying, 'I am he!' and,
'The time is at hand!' Do not go after them.
Luk 21:9 And when you hear of wars and tumults, do not be terrified, for these things must first take place, but
the end will not be at once."
Luk 21:10 Then he said to them, "Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom.
Luk 21:11 There will be great earthquakes, and in various places famines and pestilences. And there will be
terrors and great signs from heaven.
Luk 21:12 But before all this they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the
synagogues and prisons, and you will be brought before kings and governors for my name's sake.
Luk 21:13 This will be your opportunity to bear witness.
Luk 21:14 Settle it therefore in your minds not to meditate beforehand how to answer,
Luk 21:15 for I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which none of your adversaries will be able to withstand or
contradict.
Luk 21:16 You will be delivered up even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends, and some of you
they will put to death.
Luk 21:17 You will be hated by all for my name's sake.
Luk 21:18 But not a hair of your head will perish.
Luk 21:19 By your endurance you will gain your lives.
Luk 21:20 "But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its desolation has come near.
Luk 21:21 Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, and let those who are inside the city depart,
and let not those who are out in the country enter it,
Luk 21:22 for these are days of vengeance, to fulfill all that is written.
Luk 21:23 Alas for women who are pregnant and for those who are nursing infants in those days! For there will
be great distress upon the earth and wrath against this people.
Luk 21:24 They will fall by the edge of the sword and be led captive among all nations, and Jerusalem will be
trampled underfoot by the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
Luk 21:25 "And there will be signs in sun and moon and stars, and on the earth distress of nations in perplexity
because of the roaring of the sea and the waves,
Luk 21:26 people fainting with fear and with foreboding of what is coming on the world. For the powers of the
heavens will be shaken.
Luk 21:27 And then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.
Luk 21:28 Now when these things begin to take place, straighten up and raise your heads, because your
redemption is drawing near."
Luk 21:29 And he told them a parable: "Look at the fig tree, and all the trees.
Luk 21:30 As soon as they come out in leaf, you see for yourselves and know that the summer is already near.
Luk 21:31 So also, when you see these things taking place, you know that the kingdom of God is near.
Luk 21:32 Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all has taken place.
Luk 21:33 Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.
Luk 21:34 "But watch yourselves lest your hearts be weighed down with dissipation and drunkenness and cares
of this life, and that day come upon you suddenly like a trap.
Luk 21:35 For it will come upon all who dwell on the face of the whole earth.
Luk 21:36 But stay awake at all times, praying that you may have strength to escape all these things that are
going to take place, and to stand before the Son of Man."
Luk 21:37 And every day he was teaching in the temple, but at night he went out and lodged on the mount
called Olivet.
Luk 21:38 And early in the morning all the people came to him in the temple to hear him.
Luk 22:1 Now the Feast of Unleavened Bread drew near, which is called the Passover.
Luk 22:2 And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how to put him to death, for they feared the people.
Luk 22:3 Then Satan entered into Judas called Iscariot, who was of the number of the twelve.
Luk 22:4 He went away and conferred with the chief priests and officers how he might betray him to them.
Luk 22:5 And they were glad, and agreed to give him money.
Luk 22:6 So he consented and sought an opportunity to betray him to them in the absence of a crowd.Luk 22:7 Then came the day of Unleavened Bread, on which the Passover lamb had to be sacrificed.
Luk 22:8 So Jesus sent Peter and John, saying, "Go and prepare the Passover for us, that we may eat it."
Luk 22:9 They said to him, "Where will you have us prepare it?"
Luk 22:10 He said to them, "Behold, when you have entered the city, a man carrying a jar of water will meet
you. Follow him into the house that he enters
Luk 22:11 and tell the master of the house, 'The Teacher says to you, Where is the guest room, where I may eat
the Passover with my disciples?'
Luk 22:12 And he will show you a large upper room furnished; prepare it there."
Luk 22:13 And they went and found it just as he had told them, and they prepared the Passover.
Luk 22:14 And when the hour came, he reclined at table, and the apostles with him.
Luk 22:15 And he said to them, "I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer.
Luk 22:16 For I tell you I will not eat it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God."
Luk 22:17 And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he said, "Take this, and divide it among
yourselves.
Luk 22:18 For I tell you that from now on I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes."
Luk 22:19 And he took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to them, saying, "This is
my body, which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me."
Luk 22:20 And likewise the cup after they had eaten, saying, "This cup that is poured out for you is the new
covenant in my blood.
Luk 22:21 But behold, the hand of him who betrays me is with me on the table.
Luk 22:22 For the Son of Man goes as it has been determined, but woe to that man by whom he is betrayed!"
Luk 22:23 And they began to question one another, which of them it could be who was going to do this.
Luk 22:24 A dispute also arose among them, as to which of them was to be regarded as the greatest.
Luk 22:25 And he said to them, "The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and those in authority
over them are called benefactors.
Luk 22:26 But not so with you. Rather, let the greatest among you become as the youngest, and the leader as
one who serves.
Luk 22:27 For who is the greater, one who reclines at table or one who serves? Is it not the one who reclines at
table? But I am among you as the one who serves.
Luk 22:28 "You are those who have stayed with me in my trials,
Luk 22:29 and I assign to you, as my Father assigned to me, a kingdom,
Luk 22:30 that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of
Israel.
Luk 22:31 "Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded to have you, that he might sift you like wheat,
Luk 22:32 but I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again, strengthen
your brothers."
Luk 22:33 Peter said to him, "Lord, I am ready to go with you both to prison and to death."
Luk 22:34 Jesus said, "I tell you, Peter, the rooster will not crow this day, until you deny three times that you
know me."
Luk 22:35 And he said to them, "When I sent you out with no moneybag or knapsack or sandals, did you lack
anything?" They said, "Nothing."
Luk 22:36 He said to them, "But now let the one who has a moneybag take it, and likewise a knapsack. And let
the one who has no sword sell his cloak and buy one.
Luk 22:37 For I tell you that this Scripture must be fulfilled in me: 'And he was numbered with the transgressors.'
For what is written about me has its fulfillment."
Luk 22:38 And they said, "Look, Lord, here are two swords." And he said to them, "It is enough."
Luk 22:39 And he came out and went, as was his custom, to the Mount of Olives, and the disciples followed
him.
Luk 22:40 And when he came to the place, he said to them, "Pray that you may not enter into temptation."
Luk 22:41 And he withdrew from them about a stone's throw, and knelt down and prayed,
Luk 22:42 saying, "Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours, be
done."
Luk 22:43 And there appeared to him an angel from heaven, strengthening him.
Luk 22:44 And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly; and his sweat became like great drops of blood
falling down to the ground.
Luk 22:45 And when he rose from prayer, he came to the disciples and found them sleeping for sorrow,
Luk 22:46 and he said to them, "Why are you sleeping? Rise and pray that you may not enter into temptation."
Luk 22:47 While he was still speaking, there came a crowd, and the man called Judas, one of the twelve, was
leading them. He drew near to Jesus to kiss him,Luk 22:48 but Jesus said to him, "Judas, would you betray the Son of Man with a kiss?"
Luk 22:49 And when those who were around him saw what would follow, they said, "Lord, shall we strike with
the sword?"
Luk 22:50 And one of them struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his right ear.
Luk 22:51 But Jesus said, "No more of this!" And he touched his ear and healed him.
Luk 22:52 Then Jesus said to the chief priests and officers of the temple and elders, who had come out against
him, "Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs?
Luk 22:53 When I was with you day after day in the temple, you did not lay hands on me. But this is your hour,
and the power of darkness."
Luk 22:54 Then they seized him and led him away, bringing him into the high priest's house, and Peter was
following at a distance.
Luk 22:55 And when they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard and sat down together, Peter sat
down among them.
Luk 22:56 Then a servant girl, seeing him as he sat in the light and looking closely at him, said, "This man also
was with him."
Luk 22:57 But he denied it, saying, "Woman, I do not know him."
Luk 22:58 And a little later someone else saw him and said, "You also are one of them." But Peter said, "Man, I
am not."
Luk 22:59 And after an interval of about an hour still another insisted, saying, "Certainly this man also was with
him, for he too is a Galilean."
Luk 22:60 But Peter said, "Man, I do not know what you are talking about." And immediately, while he was still
speaking, the rooster crowed.
Luk 22:61 And the Lord turned and looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the saying of the Lord, how he had
said to him, "Before the rooster crows today, you will deny me three times."
Luk 22:62 And he went out and wept bitterly.
Luk 22:63 Now the men who were holding Jesus in custody were mocking him as they beat him.
Luk 22:64 They also blindfolded him and kept asking him, "Prophesy! Who is it that struck you?"
Luk 22:65 And they said many other things against him, blaspheming him.
Luk 22:66 When day came, the assembly of the elders of the people gathered together, both chief priests and
scribes. And they led him away to their council, and they said,
Luk 22:67 "If you are the Christ, tell us." But he said to them, "If I tell you, you will not believe,
Luk 22:68 and if I ask you, you will not answer.
Luk 22:69 But from now on the Son of Man shall be seated at the right hand of the power of God."
Luk 22:70 So they all said, "Are you the Son of God, then?" And he said to them, "You say that I am."
Luk 22:71 Then they said, "What further testimony do we need? We have heard it ourselves from his own lips."
Luk 23:1 Then the whole company of them arose and brought him before Pilate.
Luk 23:2 And they began to accuse him, saying, "We found this man misleading our nation and forbidding us to
give tribute to Caesar, and saying that he himself is Christ, a king."
Luk 23:3 And Pilate asked him, "Are you the King of the Jews?" And he answered him, "You have said so."
Luk 23:4 Then Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowds, "I find no guilt in this man."
Luk 23:5 But they were urgent, saying, "He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea, from Galilee even
to this place."
Luk 23:6 When Pilate heard this, he asked whether the man was a Galilean.
Luk 23:7 And when he learned that he belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him over to Herod, who was
himself in Jerusalem at that time.
Luk 23:8 When Herod saw Jesus, he was very glad, for he had long desired to see him, because he had heard
about him, and he was hoping to see some sign done by him.
Luk 23:9 So he questioned him at some length, but he made no answer.
Luk 23:10 The chief priests and the scribes stood by, vehemently accusing him.
Luk 23:11 And Herod with his soldiers treated him with contempt and mocked him. Then, arraying him in
splendid clothing, he sent him back to Pilate.
Luk 23:12 And Herod and Pilate became friends with each other that very day, for before this they had been at
enmity with each other.
Luk 23:13 Pilate then called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people,
Luk 23:14 and said to them, "You brought me this man as one who was misleading the people. And after
examining him before you, behold, I did not find this man guilty of any of your charges against him.
Luk 23:15 Neither did Herod, for he sent him back to us. Look, nothing deserving death has been done by him.
Luk 23:16 I will therefore punish and release him."
Luk 23:17Luk 23:18 But they all cried out together, "Away with this man, and release to us Barabbas"-
Luk 23:19 a man who had been thrown into prison for an insurrection started in the city and for murder.
Luk 23:20 Pilate addressed them once more, desiring to release Jesus,
Luk 23:21 but they kept shouting, "Crucify, crucify him!"
Luk 23:22 A third time he said to them, "Why, what evil has he done? I have found in him no guilt deserving
death. I will therefore punish and release him."
Luk 23:23 But they were urgent, demanding with loud cries that he should be crucified. And their voices
prevailed.
Luk 23:24 So Pilate decided that their demand should be granted.
Luk 23:25 He released the man who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, for whom they
asked, but he delivered Jesus over to their will.
Luk 23:26 And as they led him away, they seized one Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country,
and laid on him the cross, to carry it behind Jesus.
Luk 23:27 And there followed him a great multitude of the people and of women who were mourning and
lamenting for him.
Luk 23:28 But turning to them Jesus said, "Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but weep for
yourselves and for your children.
Luk 23:29 For behold, the days are coming when they will say, 'Blessed are the barren and the wombs that
never bore and the breasts that never nursed!'
Luk 23:30 Then they will begin to say to the mountains, 'Fall on us,' and to the hills, 'Cover us.'
Luk 23:31 For if they do these things when the wood is green, what will happen when it is dry?"
Luk 23:32 Two others, who were criminals, were led away to be put to death with him.
Luk 23:33 And when they came to the place that is called The Skull, there they crucified him, and the criminals,
one on his right and one on his left.
Luk 23:34 And Jesus said, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." And they cast lots to divide
his garments.
Luk 23:35 And the people stood by, watching, but the rulers scoffed at him, saying, "He saved others; let him
save himself, if he is the Christ of God, his Chosen One!"
Luk 23:36 The soldiers also mocked him, coming up and offering him sour wine
Luk 23:37 and saying, "If you are the King of the Jews, save yourself!"
Luk 23:38 There was also an inscription over him, "This is the King of the Jews."
Luk 23:39 One of the criminals who were hanged railed at him, saying, "Are you not the Christ? Save yourself
and us!"
Luk 23:40 But the other rebuked him, saying, "Do you not fear God, since you are under the same sentence of
condemnation?
Luk 23:41 And we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward of our deeds; but this man has done
nothing wrong."
Luk 23:42 And he said, "Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom."
Luk 23:43 And he said to him, "Truly, I say to you, today you will be with me in Paradise."
Luk 23:44 It was now about the sixth hour, and there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour,
Luk 23:45 while the sun's light failed. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two.
Luk 23:46 Then Jesus, calling out with a loud voice, said, "Father, into your hands I commit my spirit!" And
having said this he breathed his last.
Luk 23:47 Now when the centurion saw what had taken place, he praised God, saying, "Certainly this man was
innocent!"
Luk 23:48 And all the crowds that had assembled for this spectacle, when they saw what had taken place,
returned home beating their breasts.
Luk 23:49 And all his acquaintances and the women who had followed him from Galilee stood at a distance
watching these things.
Luk 23:50 Now there was a man named Joseph, from the Jewish town of Arimathea. He was a member of the
council, a good and righteous man,
Luk 23:51 who had not consented to their decision and action; and he was looking for the kingdom of God.
Luk 23:52 This man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
Luk 23:53 Then he took it down and wrapped it in a linen shroud and laid him in a tomb cut in stone, where no
one had ever yet been laid.
Luk 23:54 It was the day of Preparation, and the Sabbath was beginning.
Luk 23:55 The women who had come with him from Galilee followed and saw the tomb and how his body was
laid.
Luk 23:56 Then they returned and prepared spices and ointments. On the Sabbath they rested according to thecommandment.
Luk 24:1 But on the first day of the week, at early dawn, they went to the tomb, taking the spices they had
prepared.
Luk 24:2 And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb,
Luk 24:3 but when they went in they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.
Luk 24:4 While they were perplexed about this, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling apparel.
Luk 24:5 And as they were frightened and bowed their faces to the ground, the men said to them, "Why do you
seek the living among the dead?
Luk 24:6 He is not here, but has risen. Remember how he told you, while he was still in Galilee,
Luk 24:7 that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified and on the third
day rise."
Luk 24:8 And they remembered his words,
Luk 24:9 and returning from the tomb they told all these things to the eleven and to all the rest.
Luk 24:10 Now it was Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary the mother of James and the other women with
them who told these things to the apostles,
Luk 24:11 but these words seemed to them an idle tale, and they did not believe them.
Luk 24:12 But Peter rose and ran to the tomb; stooping and looking in, he saw the linen cloths by themselves;
and he went home marveling at what had happened.
Luk 24:13 That very day two of them were going to a village named Emmaus, about seven miles from
Jerusalem,
Luk 24:14 and they were talking with each other about all these things that had happened.
Luk 24:15 While they were talking and discussing together, Jesus himself drew near and went with them.
Luk 24:16 But their eyes were kept from recognizing him.
Luk 24:17 And he said to them, "What is this conversation that you are holding with each other as you walk?"
And they stood still, looking sad.
Luk 24:18 Then one of them, named Cleopas, answered him, "Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who does
not know the things that have happened there in these days?"
Luk 24:19 And he said to them, "What things?" And they said to him, "Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, a man
who was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people,
Luk 24:20 and how our chief priests and rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death, and crucified him.
Luk 24:21 But we had hoped that he was the one to redeem Israel. Yes, and besides all this, it is now the third
day since these things happened.
Luk 24:22 Moreover, some women of our company amazed us. They were at the tomb early in the morning,
Luk 24:23 and when they did not find his body, they came back saying that they had even seen a vision of
angels, who said that he was alive.
Luk 24:24 Some of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said, but him
they did not see."
Luk 24:25 And he said to them, "O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken!
Luk 24:26 Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory?"
Luk 24:27 And beginning with Moses and all the Prophets, he interpreted to them in all the Scriptures the things
concerning himself.
Luk 24:28 So they drew near to the village to which they were going. He acted as if he were going farther,
Luk 24:29 but they urged him strongly, saying, "Stay with us, for it is toward evening and the day is now far
spent." So he went in to stay with them.
Luk 24:30 When he was at table with them, he took the bread and blessed and broke it and gave it to them.
Luk 24:31 And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him. And he vanished from their sight.
Luk 24:32 They said to each other, "Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road, while he
opened to us the Scriptures?"
Luk 24:33 And they rose that same hour and returned to Jerusalem. And they found the eleven and those who
were with them gathered together,
Luk 24:34 saying, "The Lord has risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon!"
Luk 24:35 Then they told what had happened on the road, and how he was known to them in the breaking of the
bread.
Luk 24:36 As they were talking about these things, Jesus himself stood among them, and said to them, "Peace
to you!"
Luk 24:37 But they were startled and frightened and thought they saw a spirit.
Luk 24:38 And he said to them, "Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your hearts?
Luk 24:39 See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Touch me, and see. For a spirit does not have flesh and
bones as you see that I have."Luk 24:40 And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet.
Luk 24:41 And while they still disbelieved for joy and were marveling, he said to them, "Have you anything here
to eat?"
Luk 24:42 They gave him a piece of broiled fish,
Luk 24:43 and he took it and ate before them.
Luk 24:44 Then he said to them, "These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you, that
everything written about me in the Law of Moses and the Prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled."
Luk 24:45 Then he opened their minds to understand the Scriptures,
Luk 24:46 and said to them, "Thus it is written, that the Christ should suffer and on the third day rise from the
dead,
Luk 24:47 and that repentance and forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations,
beginning from Jerusalem.
Luk 24:48 You are witnesses of these things.
Luk 24:49 And behold, I am sending the promise of my Father upon you. But stay in the city until you are
clothed with power from on high."
Luk 24:50 Then he led them out as far as Bethany, and lifting up his hands he blessed them.
Luk 24:51 While he blessed them, he parted from them and was carried up into heaven.
Luk 24:52 And they worshiped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy,
Luk 24:53 and were continually in the temple blessing God.
Joh 1:1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
Joh 1:2 He was in the beginning with God.
Joh 1:3 All things were made through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made.
Joh 1:4 In him was life, and the life was the light of men.
Joh 1:5 The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it.
Joh 1:6 There was a man sent from God, whose name was John.
Joh 1:7 He came as a witness, to bear witness about the light, that all might believe through him.
Joh 1:8 He was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light.
Joh 1:9 The true light, which enlightens everyone, was coming into the world.
Joh 1:10 He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him.
Joh 1:11 He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him.
Joh 1:12 But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God.
Joh 1:13 who were born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God.
Joh 1:14 And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son
from the Father, full of grace and truth.
Joh 1:15 ( John bore witness about him, and cried out, "This was he of whom I said, 'He who comes after me
ranks before me, because he was before me.'")
Joh 1:16 And from his fullness we have all received, grace upon grace.
Joh 1:17 For the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came through Jesus Christ.
Joh 1:18 No one has ever seen God; the only God, who is at the Father's side, he has made him known.
Joh 1:19 And this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him,
"Who are you?"
Joh 1:20 He confessed, and did not deny, but confessed, "I am not the Christ."
Joh 1:21 And they asked him, "What then? Are you Elijah?" He said, "I am not." "Are you the Prophet?" And he
answered, "No."
Joh 1:22 So they said to him, "Who are you? We need to give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say
about yourself?"
Joh 1:23 He said, "I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness, 'Make straight the way of the Lord,' as the
prophet Isaiah said."
Joh 1:24 (Now they had been sent from the Pharisees.)
Joh 1:25 They asked him, "Then why are you baptizing, if you are neither the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the
Prophet?"
Joh 1:26 John answered them, "I baptize with water, but among you stands one you do not know,
Joh 1:27 even he who comes after me, the strap of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie."
Joh 1:28 These things took place in Bethany across the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
Joh 1:29 The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him, and said, "Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away
the sin of the world!
Joh 1:30 This is he of whom I said, 'After me comes a man who ranks before me, because he was before me.'
Joh 1:31 I myself did not know him, but for this purpose I came baptizing with water, that he might be revealed
to Israel."Joh 1:32 And John bore witness: "I saw the Spirit descend from heaven like a dove, and it remained on him.
Joh 1:33 I myself did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, 'He on whom you see
the Spirit descend and remain, this is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.'
Joh 1:34 And I have seen and have borne witness that this is the Son of God."
Joh 1:35 The next day again John was standing with two of his disciples,
Joh 1:36 and he looked at Jesus as he walked by and said, "Behold, the Lamb of God!"
Joh 1:37 The two disciples heard him say this, and they followed Jesus.
Joh 1:38 Jesus turned and saw them following and said to them, "What are you seeking?" And they said to him,
"Rabbi" (which means Teacher), "where are you staying?"
Joh 1:39 He said to them, "Come and you will see." So they came and saw where he was staying, and they
stayed with him that day, for it was about the tenth hour.
Joh 1:40 One of the two who heard John speak and followed Jesus was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.
Joh 1:41 He first found his own brother Simon and said to him, "We have found the Messiah" (which means
Christ).
Joh 1:42 He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, "So you are Simon the son of John? You shall
be called Cephas" (which means Peter).
Joh 1:43 The next day Jesus decided to go to Galilee. He found Philip and said to him, "Follow me."
Joh 1:44 Now Philip was from Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.
Joh 1:45 Philip found Nathanael and said to him, "We have found him of whom Moses in the Law and also the
prophets wrote, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph."
Joh 1:46 Nathanael said to him, "Can anything good come out of Nazareth?" Philip said to him, "Come and
see."
Joh 1:47 Jesus saw Nathanael coming toward him and said of him, "Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom there
is no deceit!"
Joh 1:48 Nathanael said to him, "How do you know me?" Jesus answered him, "Before Philip called you, when
you were under the fig tree, I saw you."
Joh 1:49 Nathanael answered him, "Rabbi, you are the Son of God! You are the King of Israel!"
Joh 1:50 Jesus answered him, "Because I said to you, 'I saw you under the fig tree,' do you believe? You will
see greater things than these."
Joh 1:51 And he said to him, "Truly, truly, I say to you, you will see heaven opened, and the angels of God
ascending and descending on the Son of Man."
Joh 2:1 On the third day there was a wedding at Cana in Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there.
Joh 2:2 Jesus also was invited to the wedding with his disciples.
Joh 2:3 When the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to him, "They have no wine."
Joh 2:4 And Jesus said to her, "Woman, what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come."
Joh 2:5 His mother said to the servants, "Do whatever he tells you."
Joh 2:6 Now there were six stone water jars there for the Jewish rites of purification, each holding twenty or
thirty gallons.
Joh 2:7 Jesus said to the servants, "Fill the jars with water." And they filled them up to the brim.
Joh 2:8 And he said to them, "Now draw some out and take it to the master of the feast." So they took it.
Joh 2:9 When the master of the feast tasted the water now become wine, and did not know where it came from
(though the servants who had drawn the water knew), the master of the feast called the bridegroom
Joh 2:10 and said to him, "Everyone serves the good wine first, and when people have drunk freely, then the
poor wine. But you have kept the good wine until now."
Joh 2:11 This, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in Galilee, and manifested his glory. And his disciples
believed in him.
Joh 2:12 After this he went down to Capernaum, with his mother and his brothers and his disciples, and they
stayed there for a few days.
Joh 2:13 The Passover of the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
Joh 2:14 In the temple he found those who were selling oxen and sheep and pigeons, and the money-changers
sitting there.
Joh 2:15 And making a whip of cords, he drove them all out of the temple, with the sheep and oxen. And he
poured out the coins of the money-changers and overturned their tables.
Joh 2:16 And he told those who sold the pigeons, "Take these things away; do not make my Father's house a
house of trade."
Joh 2:17 His disciples remembered that it was written, "Zeal for your house will consume me."
Joh 2:18 So the Jews said to him, "What sign do you show us for doing these things?"
Joh 2:19 Jesus answered them, "Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up."
Joh 2:20 The Jews then said, "It has taken forty-six years to build this temple, and will you raise it up in threedays?"
Joh 2:21 But he was speaking about the temple of his body.
Joh 2:22 When therefore he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this, and they
believed the Scripture and the word that Jesus had spoken.
Joh 2:23 Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover Feast, many believed in his name when they saw the
signs that he was doing.
Joh 2:24 But Jesus on his part did not entrust himself to them, because he knew all people
Joh 2:25 and needed no one to bear witness about man, for he himself knew what was in man.
Joh 3:1 Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews.
Joh 3:2 This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, "Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from
God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him."
Joh 3:3 Jesus answered him, "Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again he cannot see the kingdom of
God."
Joh 3:4 Nicodemus said to him, "How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his
mother's womb and be born?"
Joh 3:5 Jesus answered, "Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter
the kingdom of God.
Joh 3:6 That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
Joh 3:7 Do not marvel that I said to you, 'You must be born again.'
Joh 3:8 The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or
where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit."
Joh 3:9 Nicodemus said to him, "How can these things be?"
Joh 3:10 Jesus answered him, "Are you the teacher of Israel and yet you do not understand these things?
Joh 3:11 Truly, truly, I say to you, we speak of what we know, and bear witness to what we have seen, but you
do not receive our testimony.
Joh 3:12 If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly
things?
Joh 3:13 No one has ascended into heaven except him who descended from heaven, the Son of Man.
Joh 3:14 And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up,
Joh 3:15 that whoever believes in him may have eternal life."
Joh 3:16 For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish
but have eternal life.
Joh 3:17 For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be
saved through him.
Joh 3:18 Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already,
because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God.
Joh 3:19 And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than
the light because their deeds were evil.
Joh 3:20 For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his deeds
should be exposed.
Joh 3:21 But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his deeds have
been carried out in God.
Joh 3:22 After this Jesus and his disciples went into the Judean countryside, and he remained there with them
and was baptizing.
Joh 3:23 John also was baptizing at Aenon near Salim, because water was plentiful there, and people were
coming and being baptized
Joh 3:24 (for John had not yet been put in prison).
Joh 3:25 Now a discussion arose between some of John's disciples and a Jew over purification.
Joh 3:26 And they came to John and said to him, "Rabbi, he who was with you across the Jordan, to whom you
bore witness- look, he is baptizing, and all are going to him."
Joh 3:27 John answered, "A person cannot receive even one thing unless it is given him from heaven.
Joh 3:28 You yourselves bear me witness, that I said, 'I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before him.'
Joh 3:29 The one who has the bride is the bridegroom. The friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears
him, rejoices greatly at the bridegroom's voice. Therefore this joy of mine is now complete.
Joh 3:30 He must increase, but I must decrease."
Joh 3:31 He who comes from above is above all. He who is of the earth belongs to the earth and speaks in an
earthly way. He who comes from heaven is above all.
Joh 3:32 He bears witness to what he has seen and heard, yet no one receives his testimony.
Joh 3:33 Whoever receives his testimony sets his seal to this, that God is true.Joh 3:34 For he whom God has sent utters the words of God, for he gives the Spirit without measure.
Joh 3:35 The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand.
Joh 3:36 Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the
wrath of God remains on him.
Joh 4:1 Now when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more
disciples than John
Joh 4:2 (although Jesus himself did not baptize, but only his disciples),
Joh 4:3 he left Judea and departed again for Galilee.
Joh 4:4 And he had to pass through Samaria.
Joh 4:5 So he came to a town of Samaria called Sychar, near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph.
Joh 4:6 Jacob's well was there; so Jesus, wearied as he was from his journey, was sitting beside the well. It was
about the sixth hour.
Joh 4:7 There came a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus said to her, "Give me a drink."
Joh 4:8 (For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food.)
Joh 4:9 The Samaritan woman said to him, "How is it that you, a Jew, ask for a drink from me, a woman of
Samaria?" ( For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.)
Joh 4:10 Jesus answered her, "If you knew the gift of God, and who it is that is saying to you, 'Give me a drink,'
you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water."
Joh 4:11 The woman said to him, "Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep. Where do you
get that living water?
Joh 4:12 Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons
and his livestock."
Joh 4:13 Jesus said to her, "Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again,
Joh 4:14 but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty forever. The water that I will
give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life."
Joh 4:15 The woman said to him, "Sir, give me this water, so that I will not be thirsty or have to come here to
draw water."
Joh 4:16 Jesus said to her, "Go, call your husband, and come here."
Joh 4:17 The woman answered him, "I have no husband." Jesus said to her, "You are right in saying, 'I have no
husband';
Joh 4:18 for you have had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband. What you have said
is true."
Joh 4:19 The woman said to him, "Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet.
Joh 4:20 Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought
to worship."
Joh 4:21 Jesus said to her, "Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in
Jerusalem will you worship the Father.
Joh 4:22 You worship what you do not know; we worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews.
Joh 4:23 But the hour is coming, and is now here, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and
truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him.
Joh 4:24 God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth."
Joh 4:25 The woman said to him, "I know that Messiah is coming (he who is called Christ). When he comes, he
will tell us all things."
Joh 4:26 Jesus said to her, "I who speak to you am he."
Joh 4:27 Just then his disciples came back. They marveled that he was talking with a woman, but no one said,
"What do you seek?" or, "Why are you talking with her?"
Joh 4:28 So the woman left her water jar and went away into town and said to the people,
Joh 4:29 "Come, see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ?"
Joh 4:30 They went out of the town and were coming to him.
Joh 4:31 Meanwhile the disciples were urging him, saying, "Rabbi, eat."
Joh 4:32 But he said to them, "I have food to eat that you do not know about."
Joh 4:33 So the disciples said to one another, "Has anyone brought him something to eat?"
Joh 4:34 Jesus said to them, "My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work.
Joh 4:35 Do you not say, 'There are yet four months, then comes the harvest'? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes,
and see that the fields are white for harvest.
Joh 4:36 Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that sower and
reaper may rejoice together.
Joh 4:37 For here the saying holds true, 'One sows and another reaps.'
Joh 4:38 I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others have labored, and you have entered intotheir labor."
Joh 4:39 Many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony, "He told me all
that I ever did."
Joh 4:40 So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with them, and he stayed there two
days.
Joh 4:41 And many more believed because of his word.
Joh 4:42 They said to the woman, "It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard
for ourselves, and we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world."
Joh 4:43 After the two days he departed for Galilee.
Joh 4:44 (For Jesus himself had testified that a prophet has no honor in his own hometown.)
Joh 4:45 So when he came to Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him, having seen all that he had done in
Jerusalem at the feast. For they too had gone to the feast.
Joh 4:46 So he came again to Cana in Galilee, where he had made the water wine. And at Capernaum there
was an official whose son was ill.
Joh 4:47 When this man heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to him and asked him to
come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death.
Joh 4:48 So Jesus said to him, "Unless you see signs and wonders you will not believe."
Joh 4:49 The official said to him, "Sir, come down before my child dies."
Joh 4:50 Jesus said to him, "Go; your son will live." The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and
went on his way.
Joh 4:51 As he was going down, his servants met him and told him that his son was recovering.
Joh 4:52 So he asked them the hour when he began to get better, and they said to him, "Yesterday at the
seventh hour the fever left him."
Joh 4:53 The father knew that was the hour when Jesus had said to him, "Your son will live." And he himself
believed, and all his household.
Joh 4:54 This was now the second sign that Jesus did when he had come from Judea to Galilee.
Joh 5:1 After this there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
Joh 5:2 Now there is in Jerusalem by the Sheep Gate a pool, in Aramaic called Bethesda, which has five roofed
colonnades.
Joh 5:3 In these lay a multitude of invalids- blind, lame, and paralyzed.
Joh 5:4
Joh 5:5 One man was there who had been an invalid for thirty-eight years.
Joh 5:6 When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been there a long time, he said to him,
"Do you want to be healed?"
Joh 5:7 The sick man answered him, "Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up,
and while I am going another steps down before me."
Joh 5:8 Jesus said to him, "Get up, take up your bed, and walk."
Joh 5:9 And at once the man was healed, and he took up his bed and walked. Now that day was the Sabbath.
Joh 5:10 So the Jews said to the man who had been healed, "It is the Sabbath, and it is not lawful for you to
take up your bed."
Joh 5:11 But he answered them, "The man who healed me, that man said to me, 'Take up your bed, and walk.'"
Joh 5:12 They asked him, "Who is the man who said to you, 'Take up your bed and walk'?"
Joh 5:13 Now the man who had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn, as there was a
crowd in the place.
Joh 5:14 Afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, "See, you are well! Sin no more, that nothing
worse may happen to you."
Joh 5:15 The man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him.
Joh 5:16 And this was why the Jews were persecuting Jesus, because he was doing these things on the
Sabbath.
Joh 5:17 But Jesus answered them, "My Father is working until now, and I am working."
Joh 5:18 This was why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the
Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own Father, making himself equal with God.
Joh 5:19 So Jesus said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only
what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise.
Joh 5:20 For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that he himself is doing. And greater works than these
will he show him, so that you may marvel.
Joh 5:21 For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom he will.
Joh 5:22 The Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son,
Joh 5:23 that all may honor the Son, just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does nothonor the Father who sent him.
Joh 5:24 Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He
does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life.
Joh 5:25 "Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming, and is now here, when the dead will hear the voice of the
Son of God, and those who hear will live.
Joh 5:26 For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself.
Joh 5:27 And he has given him authority to execute judgment, because he is the Son of Man.
Joh 5:28 Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice
Joh 5:29 and come out, those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to
the resurrection of judgment.
Joh 5:30 "I can do nothing on my own. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just, because I seek not my own
will but the will of him who sent me.
Joh 5:31 If I alone bear witness about myself, my testimony is not deemed true.
Joh 5:32 There is another who bears witness about me, and I know that the testimony that he bears about me is
true.
Joh 5:33 You sent to John, and he has borne witness to the truth.
Joh 5:34 Not that the testimony that I receive is from man, but I say these things so that you may be saved.
Joh 5:35 He was a burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light.
Joh 5:36 But the testimony that I have is greater than that of John. For the works that the Father has given me
to accomplish, the very works that I am doing, bear witness about me that the Father has sent me.
Joh 5:37 And the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about me. His voice you have never heard, his
form you have never seen,
Joh 5:38 and you do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe the one whom he has sent.
Joh 5:39 You search the Scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life; and it is they that bear
witness about me,
Joh 5:40 yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life.
Joh 5:41 I do not receive glory from people.
Joh 5:42 But I know that you do not have the love of God within you.
Joh 5:43 I have come in my Father's name, and you do not receive me. If another comes in his own name, you
will receive him.
Joh 5:44 How can you believe, when you receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that comes
from the only God?
Joh 5:45 Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father. There is one who accuses you: Moses, on whom you
have set your hope.
Joh 5:46 If you believed Moses, you would believe me; for he wrote of me.
Joh 5:47 But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words?"
Joh 6:1 After this Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias.
Joh 6:2 And a large crowd was following him, because they saw the signs that he was doing on the sick.
Joh 6:3 Jesus went up on the mountain, and there he sat down with his disciples.
Joh 6:4 Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand.
Joh 6:5 Lifting up his eyes, then, and seeing that a large crowd was coming toward him, Jesus said to Philip,
"Where are we to buy bread, so that these people may eat?"
Joh 6:6 He said this to test him, for he himself knew what he would do.
Joh 6:7 Philip answered him, "Two hundred denarii would not buy enough bread for each of them to get a little."
Joh 6:8 One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him,
Joh 6:9 "There is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish, but what are they for so many?"
Joh 6:10 Jesus said, "Have the people sit down." Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down,
about five thousand in number.
Joh 6:11 Jesus then took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed them to those who were
seated. So also the fish, as much as they wanted.
Joh 6:12 And when they had eaten their fill, he told his disciples, "Gather up the leftover fragments, that nothing
may be lost."
Joh 6:13 So they gathered them up and filled twelve baskets with fragments from the five barley loaves, left by
those who had eaten.
Joh 6:14 When the people saw the sign that he had done, they said, "This is indeed the Prophet who is to come
into the world!"
Joh 6:15 Perceiving then that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king, Jesus withdrew
again to the mountain by himself.
Joh 6:16 When evening came, his disciples went down to the sea,Joh 6:17 got into a boat, and started across the sea to Capernaum. It was now dark, and Jesus had not yet
come to them.
Joh 6:18 The sea became rough because a strong wind was blowing.
Joh 6:19 When they had rowed about three or four miles, they saw Jesus walking on the sea and coming near
the boat, and they were frightened.
Joh 6:20 But he said to them, "It is I; do not be afraid."
Joh 6:21 Then they were glad to take him into the boat, and immediately the boat was at the land to which they
were going.
Joh 6:22 On the next day the crowd that remained on the other side of the sea saw that there had been only
one boat there, and that Jesus had not entered the boat with his disciples, but that his disciples had gone away
alone.
Joh 6:23 Other boats from Tiberias came near the place where they had eaten the bread after the Lord had
given thanks.
Joh 6:24 So when the crowd saw that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they themselves got into the boats
and went to Capernaum, seeking Jesus.
Joh 6:25 When they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, "Rabbi, when did you come here?"
Joh 6:26 Jesus answered them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, you are seeking me, not because you saw signs, but
because you ate your fill of the loaves.
Joh 6:27 Do not labor for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of
Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal."
Joh 6:28 Then they said to him, "What must we do, to be doing the works of God?"
Joh 6:29 Jesus answered them, "This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has sent."
Joh 6:30 So they said to him, "Then what sign do you do, that we may see and believe you? What work do you
perform?
Joh 6:31 Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness; as it is written, 'He gave them bread from heaven to eat.'"
Joh 6:32 Jesus then said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from
heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven.
Joh 6:33 For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world."
Joh 6:34 They said to him, "Sir, give us this bread always."
Joh 6:35 Jesus said to them, "I am the bread of life; whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever
believes in me shall never thirst.
Joh 6:36 But I said to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe.
Joh 6:37 All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out.
Joh 6:38 For I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will but the will of him who sent me.
Joh 6:39 And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise
it up on the last day.
Joh 6:40 For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have
eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day."
Joh 6:41 So the Jews grumbled about him, because he said, "I am the bread that came down from heaven."
Joh 6:42 They said, "Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now
say, 'I have come down from heaven'?"
Joh 6:43 Jesus answered them, "Do not grumble among yourselves.
Joh 6:44 No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last
day.
Joh 6:45 It is written in the Prophets, 'And they will all be taught by God.' Everyone who has heard and learned
from the Father comes to meJoh 6:46 not that anyone has seen the Father except him who is from God; he has seen the Father.
Joh 6:47 Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life.
Joh 6:48 I am the bread of life.
Joh 6:49 Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died.
Joh 6:50 This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die.
Joh 6:51 I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever.
And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh."
Joh 6:52 The Jews then disputed among themselves, saying, "How can this man give us his flesh to eat?"
Joh 6:53 So Jesus said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink
his blood, you have no life in you.
Joh 6:54 Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day.
Joh 6:55 For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink.
Joh 6:56 Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him.Joh 6:57 As the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so whoever feeds on me, he also will
live because of me.
Joh 6:58 This is the bread that came down from heaven, not as the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this
bread will live forever."
Joh 6:59 Jesus said these things in the synagogue, as he taught at Capernaum.
Joh 6:60 When many of his disciples heard it, they said, "This is a hard saying; who can listen to it?"
Joh 6:61 But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were grumbling about this, said to them, "Do you take
offense at this?
Joh 6:62 Then what if you were to see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before?
Joh 6:63 It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and
life.
Joh 6:64 But there are some of you who do not believe." (For Jesus knew from the beginning who those were
who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him.)
Joh 6:65 And he said, "This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father."
Joh 6:66 After this many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him.
Joh 6:67 So Jesus said to the Twelve, "Do you want to go away as well?"
Joh 6:68 Simon Peter answered him, "Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life,
Joh 6:69 and we have believed, and have come to know, that you are the Holy One of God."
Joh 6:70 Jesus answered them, "Did I not choose you, the Twelve? And yet one of you is a devil."
Joh 6:71 He spoke of Judas the son of Simon Iscariot, for he, one of the Twelve, was going to betray him.
Joh 7:1 After this Jesus went about in Galilee. He would not go about in Judea, because the Jews were seeking
to kill him.
Joh 7:2 Now the Jews' Feast of Booths was at hand.
Joh 7:3 So his brothers said to him, "Leave here and go to Judea, that your disciples also may see the works
you are doing.
Joh 7:4 For no one works in secret if he seeks to be known openly. If you do these things, show yourself to the
world."
Joh 7:5 For not even his brothers believed in him.
Joh 7:6 Jesus said to them, "My time has not yet come, but your time is always here.
Joh 7:7 The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify about it that its works are evil.
Joh 7:8 You go up to the feast. I am not going up to this feast, for my time has not yet fully come."
Joh 7:9 After saying this, he remained in Galilee.
Joh 7:10 But after his brothers had gone up to the feast, then he also went up, not publicly but in private.
Joh 7:11 The Jews were looking for him at the feast, and saying, "Where is he?"
Joh 7:12 And there was much muttering about him among the people. While some said, "He is a good man,"
others said, "No, he is leading the people astray."
Joh 7:13 Yet for fear of the Jews no one spoke openly of him.
Joh 7:14 About the middle of the feast Jesus went up into the temple and began teaching.
Joh 7:15 The Jews therefore marveled, saying, "How is it that this man has learning, when he has never
studied?"
Joh 7:16 So Jesus answered them, "My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me.
Joh 7:17 If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I am
speaking on my own authority.
Joh 7:18 The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory, but the one who seeks the glory of him
who sent him is true, and in him there is no falsehood.
Joh 7:19 Has not Moses given you the law? Yet none of you keeps the law. Why do you seek to kill me?"
Joh 7:20 The crowd answered, "You have a demon! Who is seeking to kill you?"
Joh 7:21 Jesus answered them, "I did one deed, and you all marvel at it.
Joh 7:22 Moses gave you circumcision (not that it is from Moses, but from the fathers), and you circumcise a
man on the Sabbath.
Joh 7:23 If on the Sabbath a man receives circumcision, so that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you
angry with me because on the Sabbath I made a man's whole body well?
Joh 7:24 Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment."
Joh 7:25 Some of the people of Jerusalem therefore said, "Is not this the man whom they seek to kill?
Joh 7:26 And here he is, speaking openly, and they say nothing to him! Can it be that the authorities really know
that this is the Christ?
Joh 7:27 But we know where this man comes from, and when the Christ appears, no one will know where he
comes from."
Joh 7:28 So Jesus proclaimed, as he taught in the temple, "You know me, and you know where I come from?But I have not come of my own accord. He who sent me is true, and him you do not know.
Joh 7:29 I know him, for I come from him, and he sent me."
Joh 7:30 So they were seeking to arrest him, but no one laid a hand on him, because his hour had not yet
come.
Joh 7:31 Yet many of the people believed in him. They said, "When the Christ appears, will he do more signs
than this man has done?"
Joh 7:32 The Pharisees heard the crowd muttering these things about him, and the chief priests and Pharisees
sent officers to arrest him.
Joh 7:33 Jesus then said, "I will be with you a little longer, and then I am going to him who sent me.
Joh 7:34 You will seek me and you will not find me. Where I am you cannot come."
Joh 7:35 The Jews said to one another, "Where does this man intend to go that we will not find him? Does he
intend to go to the Dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks?
Joh 7:36 What does he mean by saying, 'You will seek me and you will not find me,' and, 'Where I am you
cannot come'?"
Joh 7:37 On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up and cried out, "If anyone thirsts, let him
come to me and drink.
Joh 7:38 Whoever believes in me, as the Scripture has said, 'Out of his heart will flow rivers of living water.'"
Joh 7:39 Now this he said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive, for as yet the Spirit
had not been given, because Jesus was not yet glorified.
Joh 7:40 When they heard these words, some of the people said, "This really is the Prophet."
Joh 7:41 Others said, "This is the Christ." But some said, "Is the Christ to come from Galilee?
Joh 7:42 Has not the Scripture said that the Christ comes from the offspring of David, and comes from
Bethlehem, the village where David was?"
Joh 7:43 So there was a division among the people over him.
Joh 7:44 Some of them wanted to arrest him, but no one laid hands on him.
Joh 7:45 The officers then came to the chief priests and Pharisees, who said to them, "Why did you not bring
him?"
Joh 7:46 The officers answered, "No one ever spoke like this man!"
Joh 7:47 The Pharisees answered them, "Have you also been deceived?
Joh 7:48 Have any of the authorities or the Pharisees believed in him?
Joh 7:49 But this crowd that does not know the law is accursed."
Joh 7:50 Nicodemus, who had gone to him before, and who was one of them, said to them,
Joh 7:51 "Does our law judge a man without first giving him a hearing and learning what he does?"
Joh 7:52 They replied, "Are you from Galilee too? Search and see that no prophet arises from Galilee." [THE
EARLIEST MANUSCRIPTS DO NOT INCLUDE JOHN 7:53-8:11]
Joh 7:53 [[They went each to his own house,
Joh 8:1 but Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.
Joh 8:2 Early in the morning he came again to the temple. All the people came to him, and he sat down and
taught them.
Joh 8:3 The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in adultery, and placing her in
the midst
Joh 8:4 they said to him, "Teacher, this woman has been caught in the act of adultery.
Joh 8:5 Now in the Law Moses commanded us to stone such women. So what do you say?"
Joh 8:6 This they said to test him, that they might have some charge to bring against him. Jesus bent down and
wrote with his finger on the ground.
Joh 8:7 And as they continued to ask him, he stood up and said to them, "Let him who is without sin among you
be the first to throw a stone at her."
Joh 8:8 And once more he bent down and wrote on the ground.
Joh 8:9 But when they heard it, they went away one by one, beginning with the older ones, and Jesus was left
alone with the woman standing before him.
Joh 8:10 Jesus stood up and said to her, "Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you?"
Joh 8:11 She said, "No one, Lord." And Jesus said, "Neither do I condemn you; go, and from now on sin no
more."]]
Joh 8:12 Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, "I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in
darkness, but will have the light of life."
Joh 8:13 So the Pharisees said to him, "You are bearing witness about yourself; your testimony is not true."
Joh 8:14 Jesus answered, "Even if I do bear witness about myself, my testimony is true, for I know where I
came from and where I am going, but you do not know where I come from or where I am going.
Joh 8:15 You judge according to the flesh; I judge no one.Joh 8:16 Yet even if I do judge, my judgment is true, for it is not I alone who judge, but I and the Father who
sent me.
Joh 8:17 In your Law it is written that the testimony of two men is true.
Joh 8:18 I am the one who bears witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness about me."
Joh 8:19 They said to him therefore, "Where is your Father?" Jesus answered, "You know neither me nor my
Father. If you knew me, you would know my Father also."
Joh 8:20 These words he spoke in the treasury, as he taught in the temple; but no one arrested him, because
his hour had not yet come.
Joh 8:21 So he said to them again, "I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sin. Where I
am going, you cannot come."
Joh 8:22 So the Jews said, "Will he kill himself, since he says, 'Where I am going, you cannot come'?"
Joh 8:23 He said to them, "You are from below; I am from above. You are of this world; I am not of this world.
Joh 8:24 I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am he you will die in your sins."
Joh 8:25 So they said to him, "Who are you?" Jesus said to them, "Just what I have been telling you from the
beginning.
Joh 8:26 I have much to say about you and much to judge, but he who sent me is true, and I declare to the
world what I have heard from him."
Joh 8:27 They did not understand that he had been speaking to them about the Father.
Joh 8:28 So Jesus said to them, "When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am he, and
that I do nothing on my own authority, but speak just as the Father taught me.
Joh 8:29 And he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing
to him."
Joh 8:30 As he was saying these things, many believed in him.
Joh 8:31 So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him, "If you abide in my word, you are truly my
disciples,
Joh 8:32 and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free."
Joh 8:33 They answered him, "We are offspring of Abraham and have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it
that you say, 'You will become free'?"
Joh 8:34 Jesus answered them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is a slave to sin.
Joh 8:35 The slave does not remain in the house forever; the son remains forever.
Joh 8:36 So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed.
Joh 8:37 I know that you are offspring of Abraham; yet you seek to kill me because my word finds no place in
you.
Joh 8:38 I speak of what I have seen with my Father, and you do what you have heard from your father."
Joh 8:39 They answered him, "Abraham is our father." Jesus said to them, "If you were Abraham's children, you
would be doing what Abraham did,
Joh 8:40 but now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. This is not what
Abraham did.
Joh 8:41 You are doing what your father did." They said to him, "We were not born of sexual immorality. We
have one Father- even God."
Joh 8:42 Jesus said to them, "If God were your Father, you would love me, for I came from God and I am here. I
came not of my own accord, but he sent me.
Joh 8:43 Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot bear to hear my word.
Joh 8:44 You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from
the beginning, and has nothing to do with the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out
of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies.
Joh 8:45 But because I tell the truth, you do not believe me.
Joh 8:46 Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me?
Joh 8:47 Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not
of God."
Joh 8:48 The Jews answered him, "Are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon?"
Joh 8:49 Jesus answered, "I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me.
Joh 8:50 Yet I do not seek my own glory; there is One who seeks it, and he is the judge.
Joh 8:51 Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death."
Joh 8:52 The Jews said to him, "Now we know that you have a demon! Abraham died, as did the prophets, yet
you say, 'If anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death.'
Joh 8:53 Are you greater than our father Abraham, who died? And the prophets died! Who do you make
yourself out to be?"
Joh 8:54 Jesus answered, "If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom yousay, 'He is our God.'
Joh 8:55 But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I do not know him, I would be a liar like
you, but I do know him and I keep his word.
Joh 8:56 Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad."
Joh 8:57 So the Jews said to him, "You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham?"
Joh 8:58 Jesus said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am."
Joh 8:59 So they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple.
Joh 9:1 As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth.
Joh 9:2 And his disciples asked him, "Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?"
Joh 9:3 Jesus answered, "It was not that this man sinned, or his parents, but that the works of God might be
displayed in him.
Joh 9:4 We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day; night is coming, when no one can work.
Joh 9:5 As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world."
Joh 9:6 Having said these things, he spat on the ground and made mud with the saliva. Then he anointed the
man's eyes with the mud
Joh 9:7 and said to him, "Go, wash in the pool of Siloam" (which means Sent). So he went and washed and
came back seeing.
Joh 9:8 The neighbors and those who had seen him before as a beggar were saying, "Is this not the man who
used to sit and beg?"
Joh 9:9 Some said, "It is he." Others said, "No, but he is like him." He kept saying, "I am the man."
Joh 9:10 So they said to him, "Then how were your eyes opened?"
Joh 9:11 He answered, "The man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes and said to me, 'Go to Siloam
and wash.' So I went and washed and received my sight."
Joh 9:12 They said to him, "Where is he?" He said, "I do not know."
Joh 9:13 They brought to the Pharisees the man who had formerly been blind.
Joh 9:14 Now it was a Sabbath day when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes.
Joh 9:15 So the Pharisees again asked him how he had received his sight. And he said to them, "He put mud
on my eyes, and I washed, and I see."
Joh 9:16 Some of the Pharisees said, "This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath." But others
said, "How can a man who is a sinner do such signs?" And there was a division among them.
Joh 9:17 So they said again to the blind man, "What do you say about him, since he has opened your eyes?"
He said, "He is a prophet."
Joh 9:18 The Jews did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight, until they called the
parents of the man who had received his sight
Joh 9:19 and asked them, "Is this your son, who you say was born blind? How then does he now see?"
Joh 9:20 His parents answered, "We know that this is our son and that he was born blind.
Joh 9:21 But how he now sees we do not know, nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him; he is of age.
He will speak for himself."
Joh 9:22 (His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if
anyone should confess Jesus to be Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue.)
Joh 9:23 Therefore his parents said, "He is of age; ask him."
Joh 9:24 So for the second time they called the man who had been blind and said to him, "Give glory to God.
We know that this man is a sinner."
Joh 9:25 He answered, "Whether he is a sinner I do not know. One thing I do know, that though I was blind, now
I see."
Joh 9:26 They said to him, "What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes?"
Joh 9:27 He answered them, "I have told you already, and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it
again? Do you also want to become his disciples?"
Joh 9:28 And they reviled him, saying, "You are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses.
Joh 9:29 We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he comes from."
Joh 9:30 The man answered, "Why, this is an amazing thing! You do not know where he comes from, and yet
he opened my eyes.
Joh 9:31 We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will,
God listens to him.
Joh 9:32 Never since the world began has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind.
Joh 9:33 If this man were not from God, he could do nothing."
Joh 9:34 They answered him, "You were born in utter sin, and would you teach us?" And they cast him out.
Joh 9:35 Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and having found him he said, "Do you believe in the Son of
Man?"Joh 9:36 He answered, "And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him?"
Joh 9:37 Jesus said to him, "You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you."
Joh 9:38 He said, "Lord, I believe," and he worshiped him.
Joh 9:39 Jesus said, "For judgment I came into this world, that those who do not see may see, and those who
see may become blind."
Joh 9:40 Some of the Pharisees near him heard these things, and said to him, "Are we also blind?"
Joh 9:41 Jesus said to them, "If you were blind, you would have no guilt; but now that you say, 'We see,' your
guilt remains.
Joh 10:1 "Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door but climbs in by another
way, that man is a thief and a robber.
Joh 10:2 But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
Joh 10:3 To him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and
leads them out.
Joh 10:4 When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know
his voice.
Joh 10:5 A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers."
Joh 10:6 This figure of speech Jesus used with them, but they did not understand what he was saying to them.
Joh 10:7 So Jesus again said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep.
Joh 10:8 All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them.
Joh 10:9 I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture.
Joh 10:10 The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it
abundantly.
Joh 10:11 I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.
Joh 10:12 He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and
leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them.
Joh 10:13 He flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep.
Joh 10:14 I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me,
Joh 10:15 just as the Father knows me and I know the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep.
Joh 10:16 And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my
voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd.
Joh 10:17 For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it up again.
Joh 10:18 No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I
have authority to take it up again. This charge I have received from my Father."
Joh 10:19 There was again a division among the Jews because of these words.
Joh 10:20 Many of them said, "He has a demon, and is insane; why listen to him?"
Joh 10:21 Others said, "These are not the words of one who is oppressed by a demon. Can a demon open the
eyes of the blind?"
Joh 10:22 At that time the Feast of Dedication took place at Jerusalem. It was winter,
Joh 10:23 and Jesus was walking in the temple, in the colonnade of Solomon.
Joh 10:24 So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, "How long will you keep us in suspense? If you
are the Christ, tell us plainly."
Joh 10:25 Jesus answered them, "I told you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father's name
bear witness about me,
Joh 10:26 but you do not believe because you are not part of my flock.
Joh 10:27 My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me.
Joh 10:28 I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand.
Joh 10:29 My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of
the Father's hand.
Joh 10:30 I and the Father are one."
Joh 10:31 The Jews picked up stones again to stone him.
Joh 10:32 Jesus answered them, "I have shown you many good works from the Father; for which of them are
you going to stone me?"
Joh 10:33 The Jews answered him, "It is not for a good work that we are going to stone you but for blasphemy,
because you, being a man, make yourself God."
Joh 10:34 Jesus answered them, "Is it not written in your Law, 'I said, you are gods'?
Joh 10:35 If he called them gods to whom the word of God came- and Scripture cannot be brokenJoh 10:36 do you say of him whom the Father consecrated and sent into the world, 'You are blaspheming,'
because I said, 'I am the Son of God'?
Joh 10:37 If I am not doing the works of my Father, then do not believe me;Joh 10:38 but if I do them, even though you do not believe me, believe the works, that you may know and
understand that the Father is in me and I am in the Father."
Joh 10:39 Again they sought to arrest him, but he escaped from their hands.
Joh 10:40 He went away again across the Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing at first, and there
he remained.
Joh 10:41 And many came to him. And they said, "John did no sign, but everything that John said about this
man was true."
Joh 10:42 And many believed in him there.
Joh 11:1 Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha.
Joh 11:2 It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother
Lazarus was ill.
Joh 11:3 So the sisters sent to him, saying, "Lord, he whom you love is ill."
Joh 11:4 But when Jesus heard it he said, "This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that
the Son of God may be glorified through it."
Joh 11:5 Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.
Joh 11:6 So, when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was.
Joh 11:7 Then after this he said to the disciples, "Let us go to Judea again."
Joh 11:8 The disciples said to him, "Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you, and are you going
there again?"
Joh 11:9 Jesus answered, "Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not
stumble, because he sees the light of this world.
Joh 11:10 But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him."
Joh 11:11 After saying these things, he said to them, "Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken
him."
Joh 11:12 The disciples said to him, "Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover."
Joh 11:13 Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that he meant taking rest in sleep.
Joh 11:14 Then Jesus told them plainly, "Lazarus has died,
Joh 11:15 and for your sake I am glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him."
Joh 11:16 So Thomas, called the Twin, said to his fellow disciples, "Let us also go, that we may die with him."
Joh 11:17 Now when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days.
Joh 11:18 Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off,
Joh 11:19 and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother.
Joh 11:20 So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him, but Mary remained seated in
the house.
Joh 11:21 Martha said to Jesus, "Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.
Joh 11:22 But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you."
Joh 11:23 Jesus said to her, "Your brother will rise again."
Joh 11:24 Martha said to him, "I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day."
Joh 11:25 Jesus said to her, "I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall
he live,
Joh 11:26 and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this?"
Joh 11:27 She said to him, "Yes, Lord; I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the
world."
Joh 11:28 When she had said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, "The Teacher is here
and is calling for you."
Joh 11:29 And when she heard it, she rose quickly and went to him.
Joh 11:30 Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him.
Joh 11:31 When the Jews who were with her in the house, consoling her, saw Mary rise quickly and go out, they
followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there.
Joh 11:32 Now when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, "Lord, if
you had been here, my brother would not have died."
Joh 11:33 When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping, he was deeply
moved in his spirit and greatly troubled.
Joh 11:34 And he said, "Where have you laid him?" They said to him, "Lord, come and see."
Joh 11:35 Jesus wept.
Joh 11:36 So the Jews said, "See how he loved him!"
Joh 11:37 But some of them said, "Could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man
from dying?"
Joh 11:38 Then Jesus, deeply moved again, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone lay against it.Joh 11:39 Jesus said, "Take away the stone." Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, "Lord, by this time
there will be an odor, for he has been dead four days."
Joh 11:40 Jesus said to her, "Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God?"
Joh 11:41 So they took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, "Father, I thank you that you
have heard me.
Joh 11:42 I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around, that they
may believe that you sent me."
Joh 11:43 When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, "Lazarus, come out."
Joh 11:44 The man who had died came out, his hands and feet bound with linen strips, and his face wrapped
with a cloth. Jesus said to them, "Unbind him, and let him go."
Joh 11:45 Many of the Jews therefore, who had come with Mary and had seen what he did, believed in him,
Joh 11:46 but some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done.
Joh 11:47 So the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered the Council and said, "What are we to do? For this
man performs many signs.
Joh 11:48 If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away
both our place and our nation."
Joh 11:49 But one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them, "You know nothing at all.
Joh 11:50 Nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people, not that the
whole nation should perish."
Joh 11:51 He did not say this of his own accord, but being high priest that year he prophesied that Jesus would
die for the nation,
Joh 11:52 and not for the nation only, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad.
Joh 11:53 So from that day on they made plans to put him to death.
Joh 11:54 Jesus therefore no longer walked openly among the Jews, but went from there to the region near the
wilderness, to a town called Ephraim, and there he stayed with the disciples.
Joh 11:55 Now the Passover of the Jews was at hand, and many went up from the country to Jerusalem before
the Passover to purify themselves.
Joh 11:56 They were looking for Jesus and saying to one another as they stood in the temple, "What do you
think? That he will not come to the feast at all?"
Joh 11:57 Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where he was, he
should let them know, so that they might arrest him.
Joh 12:1 Six days before the Passover, Jesus therefore came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had
raised from the dead.
Joh 12:2 So they gave a dinner for him there. Martha served, and Lazarus was one of those reclining with him
at the table.
Joh 12:3 Mary therefore took a pound of expensive ointment made from pure nard, and anointed the feet of
Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume.
Joh 12:4 But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples (he who was about to betray him), said,
Joh 12:5 "Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?"
Joh 12:6 He said this, not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief, and having charge of
the moneybag he used to help himself to what was put into it.
Joh 12:7 Jesus said, "Leave her alone, so that she may keep it for the day of my burial.
Joh 12:8 The poor you always have with you, but you do not always have me."
Joh 12:9 When the large crowd of the Jews learned that Jesus was there, they came, not only on account of
him but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead.
Joh 12:10 So the chief priests made plans to put Lazarus to death as well,
Joh 12:11 because on account of him many of the Jews were going away and believing in Jesus.
Joh 12:12 The next day the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem.
Joh 12:13 So they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him, crying out, "Hosanna! Blessed is he
who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel!"
Joh 12:14 And Jesus found a young donkey and sat on it, just as it is written,
Joh 12:15 "Fear not, daughter of Zion; behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt!"
Joh 12:16 His disciples did not understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they
remembered that these things had been written about him and had been done to him.
Joh 12:17 The crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the
dead continued to bear witness.
Joh 12:18 The reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they heard he had done this sign.
Joh 12:19 So the Pharisees said to one another, "You see that you are gaining nothing. Look, the world has
gone after him."Joh 12:20 Now among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks.
Joh 12:21 So these came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, and asked him, "Sir, we wish to see
Jesus."
Joh 12:22 Philip went and told Andrew; Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus.
Joh 12:23 And Jesus answered them, "The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified.
Joh 12:24 Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone; but if it
dies, it bears much fruit.
Joh 12:25 Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life.
Joh 12:26 If anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there will my servant be also. If anyone
serves me, the Father will honor him.
Joh 12:27 "Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? 'Father, save me from this hour'? But for this purpose
I have come to this hour.
Joh 12:28 Father, glorify your name." Then a voice came from heaven: "I have glorified it, and I will glorify it
again."
Joh 12:29 The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said, "An angel has
spoken to him."
Joh 12:30 Jesus answered, "This voice has come for your sake, not mine.
Joh 12:31 Now is the judgment of this world; now will the ruler of this world be cast out.
Joh 12:32 And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself."
Joh 12:33 He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die.
Joh 12:34 So the crowd answered him, "We have heard from the Law that the Christ remains forever. How can
you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man?"
Joh 12:35 So Jesus said to them, "The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light,
lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going.
Joh 12:36 While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light." When Jesus had
said these things, he departed and hid himself from them.
Joh 12:37 Though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him,
Joh 12:38 so that the word spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled: "Lord, who has believed what he
heard from us, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?"
Joh 12:39 Therefore they could not believe. For again Isaiah said,
Joh 12:40 "He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes, and understand
with their heart, and turn, and I would heal them."
Joh 12:41 Isaiah said these things because he saw his glory and spoke of him.
Joh 12:42 Nevertheless, many even of the authorities believed in him, but for fear of the Pharisees they did not
confess it, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue;
Joh 12:43 for they loved the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God.
Joh 12:44 And Jesus cried out and said, "Whoever believes in me, believes not in me but in him who sent me.
Joh 12:45 And whoever sees me sees him who sent me.
Joh 12:46 I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness.
Joh 12:47 If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him; for I did not come to judge the
world but to save the world.
Joh 12:48 The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge; the word that I have spoken will
judge him on the last day.
Joh 12:49 For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself given me a
commandment- what to say and what to speak.
Joh 12:50 And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has told
me."
Joh 13:1 Now before the Feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come to depart out of this
world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end.
Joh 13:2 During supper, when the devil had already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray
him,
Joh 13:3 Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come from God
and was going back to God,
Joh 13:4 rose from supper. He laid aside his outer garments, and taking a towel, tied it around his waist.
Joh 13:5 Then he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the
towel that was wrapped around him.
Joh 13:6 He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, "Lord, do you wash my feet?"
Joh 13:7 Jesus answered him, "What I am doing you do not understand now, but afterward you will
understand."Joh 13:8 Peter said to him, "You shall never wash my feet." Jesus answered him, "If I do not wash you, you
have no share with me."
Joh 13:9 Simon Peter said to him, "Lord, not my feet only but also my hands and my head!"
Joh 13:10 Jesus said to him, "The one who has bathed does not need to wash, except for his feet, but is
completely clean. And you are clean, but not every one of you."
Joh 13:11 For he knew who was to betray him; that was why he said, "Not all of you are clean."
Joh 13:12 When he had washed their feet and put on his outer garments and resumed his place, he said to
them, "Do you understand what I have done to you?
Joh 13:13 You call me Teacher and Lord, and you are right, for so I am.
Joh 13:14 If I then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet.
Joh 13:15 For I have given you an example, that you also should do just as I have done to you.
Joh 13:16 Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the
one who sent him.
Joh 13:17 If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.
Joh 13:18 I am not speaking of all of you; I know whom I have chosen. But the Scripture will be fulfilled, 'He who
ate my bread has lifted his heel against me.'
Joh 13:19 I am telling you this now, before it takes place, that when it does take place you may believe that I am
he.
Joh 13:20 Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever receives the one I send receives me, and whoever receives me
receives the one who sent me."
Joh 13:21 After saying these things, Jesus was troubled in his spirit, and testified, "Truly, truly, I say to you, one
of you will betray me."
Joh 13:22 The disciples looked at one another, uncertain of whom he spoke.
Joh 13:23 One of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, was reclining at table close to Jesus,
Joh 13:24 so Simon Peter motioned to him to ask Jesus of whom he was speaking.
Joh 13:25 So that disciple, leaning back against Jesus, said to him, "Lord, who is it?"
Joh 13:26 Jesus answered, "It is he to whom I will give this morsel of bread when I have dipped it." So when he
had dipped the morsel, he gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot.
Joh 13:27 Then after he had taken the morsel, Satan entered into him. Jesus said to him, "What you are going
to do, do quickly."
Joh 13:28 Now no one at the table knew why he said this to him.
Joh 13:29 Some thought that, because Judas had the moneybag, Jesus was telling him, "Buy what we need for
the feast," or that he should give something to the poor.
Joh 13:30 So, after receiving the morsel of bread, he immediately went out. And it was night.
Joh 13:31 When he had gone out, Jesus said, "Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him.
Joh 13:32 If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and glorify him at once.
Joh 13:33 Little children, yet a little while I am with you. You will seek me, and just as I said to the Jews, so now
I also say to you, 'Where I am going you cannot come.'
Joh 13:34 A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another: just as I have loved you, you also are
to love one another.
Joh 13:35 By this all people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another."
Joh 13:36 Simon Peter said to him, "Lord, where are you going?" Jesus answered him, "Where I am going you
cannot follow me now, but you will follow afterward."
Joh 13:37 Peter said to him, "Lord, why can I not follow you now? I will lay down my life for you."
Joh 13:38 Jesus answered, "Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly, I say to you, the rooster will not
crow till you have denied me three times.
Joh 14:1 "Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God; believe also in me.
Joh 14:2 In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a
place for you?
Joh 14:3 And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am
you may be also.
Joh 14:4 And you know the way to where I am going."
Joh 14:5 Thomas said to him, "Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way?"
Joh 14:6 Jesus said to him, "I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except
through me.
Joh 14:7 If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on you do know him and have
seen him."
Joh 14:8 Philip said to him, "Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us."
Joh 14:9 Jesus said to him, "Have I been with you so long, and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever hasseen me has seen the Father. How can you say, 'Show us the Father'?
Joh 14:10 Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you I do
not speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does his works.
Joh 14:11 Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works
themselves.
Joh 14:12 "Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do; and greater works
than these will he do, because I am going to the Father.
Joh 14:13 Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
Joh 14:14 If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it.
Joh 14:15 "If you love me, you will keep my commandments.
Joh 14:16 And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you forever,
Joh 14:17 even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him.
You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you.
Joh 14:18 "I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you.
Joh 14:19 Yet a little while and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, you also will
live.
Joh 14:20 In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you.
Joh 14:21 Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will
be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him."
Joh 14:22 Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, "Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us, and not to the
world?"
Joh 14:23 Jesus answered him, "If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we
will come to him and make our home with him.
Joh 14:24 Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the word that you hear is not mine but the
Father's who sent me.
Joh 14:25 "These things I have spoken to you while I am still with you.
Joh 14:26 But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and
bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you.
Joh 14:27 Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your
hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid.
Joh 14:28 You heard me say to you, 'I am going away, and I will come to you.' If you loved me, you would have
rejoiced, because I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I.
Joh 14:29 And now I have told you before it takes place, so that when it does take place you may believe.
Joh 14:30 I will no longer talk much with you, for the ruler of this world is coming. He has no claim on me,
Joh 14:31 but I do as the Father has commanded me, so that the world may know that I love the Father. Rise,
let us go from here.
Joh 15:1 "I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser.
Joh 15:2 Every branch of mine that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit he
prunes, that it may bear more fruit.
Joh 15:3 Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you.
Joh 15:4 Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither
can you, unless you abide in me.
Joh 15:5 I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit,
for apart from me you can do nothing.
Joh 15:6 If anyone does not abide in me he is thrown away like a branch and withers; and the branches are
gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned.
Joh 15:7 If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you.
Joh 15:8 By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples.
Joh 15:9 As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love.
Joh 15:10 If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father's
commandments and abide in his love.
Joh 15:11 These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full.
Joh 15:12 "This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you.
Joh 15:13 Greater love has no one than this, that someone lays down his life for his friends.
Joh 15:14 You are my friends if you do what I command you.
Joh 15:15 No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing; but I have
called you friends, for all that I have heard from my Father I have made known to you.
Joh 15:16 You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit and that
your fruit should abide, so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you.Joh 15:17 These things I command you, so that you will love one another.
Joh 15:18 "If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you.
Joh 15:19 If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own; but because you are not of the world,
but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you.
Joh 15:20 Remember the word that I said to you: 'A servant is not greater than his master.' If they persecuted
me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours.
Joh 15:21 But all these things they will do to you on account of my name, because they do not know him who
sent me.
Joh 15:22 If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have been guilty of sin, but now they have no
excuse for their sin.
Joh 15:23 Whoever hates me hates my Father also.
Joh 15:24 If I had not done among them the works that no one else did, they would not be guilty of sin, but now
they have seen and hated both me and my Father.
Joh 15:25 But the word that is written in their Law must be fulfilled: 'They hated me without a cause.'
Joh 15:26 "But when the Helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who
proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness about me.
Joh 15:27 And you also will bear witness, because you have been with me from the beginning.
Joh 16:1 "I have said all these things to you to keep you from falling away.
Joh 16:2 They will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think
he is offering service to God.
Joh 16:3 And they will do these things because they have not known the Father, nor me.
Joh 16:4 But I have said these things to you, that when their hour comes you may remember that I told them to
you. "I did not say these things to you from the beginning, because I was with you.
Joh 16:5 But now I am going to him who sent me, and none of you asks me, 'Where are you going?'
Joh 16:6 But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart.
Joh 16:7 Nevertheless, I tell you the truth: it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the
Helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you.
Joh 16:8 And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment:
Joh 16:9 concerning sin, because they do not believe in me;
Joh 16:10 concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you will see me no longer;
Joh 16:11 concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged.
Joh 16:12 "I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now.
Joh 16:13 When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth, for he will not speak on his own
authority, but whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come.
Joh 16:14 He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you.
Joh 16:15 All that the Father has is mine; therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you.
Joh 16:16 "A little while, and you will see me no longer; and again a little while, and you will see me."
Joh 16:17 So some of his disciples said to one another, "What is this that he says to us, 'A little while, and you
will not see me, and again a little while, and you will see me'; and, 'because I am going to the Father'?"
Joh 16:18 So they were saying, "What does he mean by 'a little while'? We do not know what he is talking
about."
Joh 16:19 Jesus knew that they wanted to ask him, so he said to them, "Is this what you are asking yourselves,
what I meant by saying, 'A little while and you will not see me, and again a little while and you will see me'?
Joh 16:20 Truly, truly, I say to you, you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice. You will be sorrowful, but
your sorrow will turn into joy.
Joh 16:21 When a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come, but when she has
delivered the baby, she no longer remembers the anguish, for joy that a human being has been born into the
world.
Joh 16:22 So also you have sorrow now, but I will see you again and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will
take your joy from you.
Joh 16:23 In that day you will ask nothing of me. Truly, truly, I say to you, whatever you ask of the Father in my
name, he will give it to you.
Joh 16:24 Until now you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full.
Joh 16:25 "I have said these things to you in figures of speech. The hour is coming when I will no longer speak
to you in figures of speech but will tell you plainly about the Father.
Joh 16:26 In that day you will ask in my name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf;
Joh 16:27 for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me and have believed that I came from
God.
Joh 16:28 I came from the Father and have come into the world, and now I am leaving the world and going tothe Father."
Joh 16:29 His disciples said, "Ah, now you are speaking plainly and not using figurative speech!
Joh 16:30 Now we know that you know all things and do not need anyone to question you; this is why we
believe that you came from God."
Joh 16:31 Jesus answered them, "Do you now believe?
Joh 16:32 Behold, the hour is coming, indeed it has come, when you will be scattered, each to his own home,
and will leave me alone. Yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me.
Joh 16:33 I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation.
But take heart; I have overcome the world."
Joh 17:1 When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, "Father, the hour has
come; glorify your Son that the Son may glorify you,
Joh 17:2 since you have given him authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom you have given him.
Joh 17:3 And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.
Joh 17:4 I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do.
Joh 17:5 And now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world
existed.
Joh 17:6 "I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and
you gave them to me, and they have kept your word.
Joh 17:7 Now they know that everything that you have given me is from you.
Joh 17:8 For I have given them the words that you gave me, and they have received them and have come to
know in truth that I came from you; and they have believed that you sent me.
Joh 17:9 I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world but for those whom you have given me, for they
are yours.
Joh 17:10 All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them.
Joh 17:11 And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep
them in your name, which you have given me, that they may be one, even as we are one.
Joh 17:12 While I was with them, I kept them in your name, which you have given me. I have guarded them,
and not one of them has been lost except the son of destruction, that the Scripture might be fulfilled.
Joh 17:13 But now I am coming to you, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled
in themselves.
Joh 17:14 I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as
I am not of the world.
Joh 17:15 I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one.
Joh 17:16 They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.
Joh 17:17 Sanctify them in the truth; your word is truth.
Joh 17:18 As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world.
Joh 17:19 And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they also may be sanctified in truth.
Joh 17:20 "I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word,
Joh 17:21 that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us, so
that the world may believe that you have sent me.
Joh 17:22 The glory that you have given me I have given to them, that they may be one even as we are one,
Joh 17:23 I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you
sent me and loved them even as you loved me.
Joh 17:24 Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, may be with me where I am, to see my
glory that you have given me because you loved me before the foundation of the world.
Joh 17:25 O righteous Father, even though the world does not know you, I know you, and these know that you
have sent me.
Joh 17:26 I made known to them your name, and I will continue to make it known, that the love with which you
have loved me may be in them, and I in them."
Joh 18:1 When Jesus had spoken these words, he went out with his disciples across the Kidron Valley, where
there was a garden, which he and his disciples entered.
Joh 18:2 Now Judas, who betrayed him, also knew the place, for Jesus often met there with his disciples.
Joh 18:3 So Judas, having procured a band of soldiers and some officers from the chief priests and the
Pharisees, went there with lanterns and torches and weapons.
Joh 18:4 Then Jesus, knowing all that would happen to him, came forward and said to them, "Whom do you
seek?"
Joh 18:5 They answered him, "Jesus of Nazareth." Jesus said to them, "I am he." Judas, who betrayed him,
was standing with them.
Joh 18:6 When Jesus said to them, "I am he," they drew back and fell to the ground.Joh 18:7 So he asked them again, "Whom do you seek?" And they said, "Jesus of Nazareth."
Joh 18:8 Jesus answered, "I told you that I am he. So, if you seek me, let these men go."
Joh 18:9 This was to fulfill the word that he had spoken: "Of those whom you gave me I have lost not one."
Joh 18:10 Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's servant and cut off his right
ear. (The servant's name was Malchus.)
Joh 18:11 So Jesus said to Peter, "Put your sword into its sheath; shall I not drink the cup that the Father has
given me?"
Joh 18:12 So the band of soldiers and their captain and the officers of the Jews arrested Jesus and bound him.
Joh 18:13 First they led him to Annas, for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year.
Joh 18:14 It was Caiaphas who had advised the Jews that it would be expedient that one man should die for the
people.
Joh 18:15 Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple. Since that disciple was known to the high
priest, he entered with Jesus into the court of the high priest,
Joh 18:16 but Peter stood outside at the door. So the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out
and spoke to the servant girl who kept watch at the door, and brought Peter in.
Joh 18:17 The servant girl at the door said to Peter, "You also are not one of this man's disciples, are you?" He
said, "I am not."
Joh 18:18 Now the servants and officers had made a charcoal fire, because it was cold, and they were standing
and warming themselves. Peter also was with them, standing and warming himself.
Joh 18:19 The high priest then questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching.
Joh 18:20 Jesus answered him, "I have spoken openly to the world. I have always taught in synagogues and in
the temple, where all Jews come together. I have said nothing in secret.
Joh 18:21 Why do you ask me? Ask those who have heard me what I said to them; they know what I said."
Joh 18:22 When he had said these things, one of the officers standing by struck Jesus with his hand, saying, "Is
that how you answer the high priest?"
Joh 18:23 Jesus answered him, "If what I said is wrong, bear witness about the wrong; but if what I said is right,
why do you strike me?"
Joh 18:24 Annas then sent him bound to Caiaphas the high priest.
Joh 18:25 Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. So they said to him, "You also are not one of
his disciples, are you?" He denied it and said, "I am not."
Joh 18:26 One of the servants of the high priest, a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, asked, "Did I
not see you in the garden with him?"
Joh 18:27 Peter again denied it, and at once a rooster crowed.
Joh 18:28 Then they led Jesus from the house of Caiaphas to the governor's headquarters. It was early
morning. They themselves did not enter the governor's headquarters, so that they would not be defiled, but could
eat the Passover.
Joh 18:29 So Pilate went outside to them and said, "What accusation do you bring against this man?"
Joh 18:30 They answered him, "If this man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered him over to you."
Joh 18:31 Pilate said to them, "Take him yourselves and judge him by your own law." The Jews said to him, "It
is not lawful for us to put anyone to death."
Joh 18:32 This was to fulfill the word that Jesus had spoken to show by what kind of death he was going to die.
Joh 18:33 So Pilate entered his headquarters again and called Jesus and said to him, "Are you the King of the
Jews?"
Joh 18:34 Jesus answered, "Do you say this of your own accord, or did others say it to you about me?"
Joh 18:35 Pilate answered, "Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you over to me.
What have you done?"
Joh 18:36 Jesus answered, "My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants
would have been fighting, that I might not be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not from the world."
Joh 18:37 Then Pilate said to him, "So you are a king?" Jesus answered, "You say that I am a king. For this
purpose I was born and for this purpose I have come into the world- to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is
of the truth listens to my voice."
Joh 18:38 Pilate said to him, "What is truth?" After he had said this, he went back outside to the Jews and told
them, "I find no guilt in him.
Joh 18:39 But you have a custom that I should release one man for you at the Passover. So do you want me to
release to you the King of the Jews?"
Joh 18:40 They cried out again, "Not this man, but Barabbas!" Now Barabbas was a robber.
Joh 19:1 Then Pilate took Jesus and flogged him.
Joh 19:2 And the soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on his head and arrayed him in a purple
robe.Joh 19:3 They came up to him, saying, "Hail, King of the Jews!" and struck him with their hands.
Joh 19:4 Pilate went out again and said to them, "See, I am bringing him out to you that you may know that I
find no guilt in him."
Joh 19:5 So Jesus came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Pilate said to them, "Behold the
man!"
Joh 19:6 When the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, "Crucify him, crucify him!" Pilate said to
them, "Take him yourselves and crucify him, for I find no guilt in him."
Joh 19:7 The Jews answered him, "We have a law, and according to that law he ought to die because he has
made himself the Son of God."
Joh 19:8 When Pilate heard this statement, he was even more afraid.
Joh 19:9 He entered his headquarters again and said to Jesus, "Where are you from?" But Jesus gave him no
answer.
Joh 19:10 So Pilate said to him, "You will not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you
and authority to crucify you?"
Joh 19:11 Jesus answered him, "You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been given you from
above. Therefore he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin."
Joh 19:12 From then on Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews cried out, "If you release this man, you are
not Caesar's friend. Everyone who makes himself a king opposes Caesar."
Joh 19:13 So when Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus out and sat down on the judgment seat at a
place called The Stone Pavement, and in Aramaic Gabbatha.
Joh 19:14 Now it was the day of Preparation of the Passover. It was about the sixth hour. He said to the Jews,
"Behold your King!"
Joh 19:15 They cried out, "Away with him, away with him, crucify him!" Pilate said to them, "Shall I crucify your
King?" The chief priests answered, "We have no king but Caesar."
Joh 19:16 So he delivered him over to them to be crucified. So they took Jesus,
Joh 19:17 and he went out, bearing his own cross, to the place called the place of a skull, which in Aramaic is
called Golgotha.
Joh 19:18 There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them.
Joh 19:19 Pilate also wrote an inscription and put it on the cross. It read, "Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the
Jews."
Joh 19:20 Many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and
it was written in Aramaic, in Latin, and in Greek.
Joh 19:21 So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, "Do not write, 'The King of the Jews,' but rather, 'This
man said, I am King of the Jews.'"
Joh 19:22 Pilate answered, "What I have written I have written."
Joh 19:23 When the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his garments and divided them into four parts, one
part for each soldier; also his tunic. But the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom,
Joh 19:24 so they said to one another, "Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it to see whose it shall be." This was to
fulfill the Scripture which says, "They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots." So
the soldiers did these things,
Joh 19:25 but standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clopas,
and Mary Magdalene.
Joh 19:26 When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother,
"Woman, behold, your son!"
Joh 19:27 Then he said to the disciple, "Behold, your mother!" And from that hour the disciple took her to his
own home.
Joh 19:28 After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said ( to fulfill the Scripture), "I thirst."
Joh 19:29 A jar full of sour wine stood there, so they put a sponge full of the sour wine on a hyssop branch and
held it to his mouth.
Joh 19:30 When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, "It is finished," and he bowed his head and gave up
his spirit.
Joh 19:31 Since it was the day of Preparation, and so that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the
Sabbath (for that Sabbath was a high day), the Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken and that they
might be taken away.
Joh 19:32 So the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first, and of the other who had been crucified with him.
Joh 19:33 But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs.
Joh 19:34 But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water.
Joh 19:35 He who saw it has borne witness- his testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth- that
you also may believe..Joh 19:36 For these things took place that the Scripture might be fulfilled: "Not one of his bones will be broken."
Joh 19:37 And again another Scripture says, "They will look on him whom they have pierced."
Joh 19:38 After these things Joseph of Arimathea, who was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews,
asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus, and Pilate gave him permission. So he came and took
away his body.
Joh 19:39 Nicodemus also, who earlier had come to Jesus by night, came bringing a mixture of myrrh and
aloes, about seventy-five pounds in weight.
Joh 19:40 So they took the body of Jesus and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as is the burial custom of
the Jews.
Joh 19:41 Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb in which
no one had yet been laid.
Joh 19:42 So because of the Jewish day of Preparation, since the tomb was close at hand, they laid Jesus
there.
Joh 20:1 Now on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early, while it was still dark, and
saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb.
Joh 20:2 So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved, and said to
them, "They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him."
Joh 20:3 So Peter went out with the other disciple, and they were going toward the tomb.
Joh 20:4 Both of them were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first.
Joh 20:5 And stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not go in.
Joh 20:6 Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went into the tomb. He saw the linen cloths lying there,
Joh 20:7 and the face cloth, which had been on Jesus' head, not lying with the linen cloths but folded up in a
place by itself.
Joh 20:8 Then the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, also went in, and he saw and believed;
Joh 20:9 for as yet they did not understand the Scripture, that he must rise from the dead.
Joh 20:10 Then the disciples went back to their homes.
Joh 20:11 But Mary stood weeping outside the tomb, and as she wept she stooped to look into the tomb.
Joh 20:12 And she saw two angels in white, sitting where the body of Jesus had lain, one at the head and one
at the feet.
Joh 20:13 They said to her, "Woman, why are you weeping?" She said to them, "They have taken away my
Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him."
Joh 20:14 Having said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing, but she did not know that it was Jesus.
Joh 20:15 Jesus said to her, "Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking?" Supposing him to be the
gardener, she said to him, "Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him
away."
Joh 20:16 Jesus said to her, "Mary." She turned and said to him in Aramaic, "Rabboni!" (which means Teacher).
Joh 20:17 Jesus said to her, "Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father; but go to my
brothers and say to them, 'I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God.'"
Joh 20:18 Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples, "I have seen the Lord"- and that he had said
these things to her.
Joh 20:19 On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were
for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, "Peace be with you."
Joh 20:20 When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when
they saw the Lord.
Joh 20:21 Jesus said to them again, "Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending
you."
Joh 20:22 And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, "Receive the Holy Spirit.
Joh 20:23 If you forgive the sins of anyone, they are forgiven; if you withhold forgiveness from anyone, it is
withheld."
Joh 20:24 Now Thomas, one of the Twelve, called the Twin, was not with them when Jesus came.
Joh 20:25 So the other disciples told him, "We have seen the Lord." But he said to them, "Unless I see in his
hands the mark of the nails, and place my finger into the mark of the nails, and place my hand into his side, I will
never believe."
Joh 20:26 Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. Although the doors
were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, "Peace be with you."
Joh 20:27 Then he said to Thomas, "Put your finger here, and see my hands; and put out your hand, and place
it in my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe."
Joh 20:28 Thomas answered him, "My Lord and my God!"
Joh 20:29 Jesus said to him, "Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have notseen and yet have believed."
Joh 20:30 Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book;
Joh 20:31 but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by
believing you may have life in his name.
Joh 21:1 After this Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples by the Sea of Tiberias, and he revealed himself
in this way.
Joh 21:2 Simon Peter, Thomas (called the Twin), Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two
others of his disciples were together.
Joh 21:3 Simon Peter said to them, "I am going fishing." They said to him, "We will go with you." They went out
and got into the boat, but that night they caught nothing.
Joh 21:4 Just as day was breaking, Jesus stood on the shore; yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus.
Joh 21:5 Jesus said to them, "Children, do you have any fish?" They answered him, "No."
Joh 21:6 He said to them, "Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some." So they cast it,
and now they were not able to haul it in, because of the quantity of fish.
Joh 21:7 That disciple whom Jesus loved therefore said to Peter, "It is the Lord!" When Simon Peter heard that
it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he was stripped for work, and threw himself into the sea.
Joh 21:8 The other disciples came in the boat, dragging the net full of fish, for they were not far from the land,
but about a hundred yards off.
Joh 21:9 When they got out on land, they saw a charcoal fire in place, with fish laid out on it, and bread.
Joh 21:10 Jesus said to them, "Bring some of the fish that you have just caught."
Joh 21:11 So Simon Peter went aboard and hauled the net ashore, full of large fish, 153 of them. And although
there were so many, the net was not torn.
Joh 21:12 Jesus said to them, "Come and have breakfast." Now none of the disciples dared ask him, "Who are
you?" They knew it was the Lord.
Joh 21:13 Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and so with the fish.
Joh 21:14 This was now the third time that Jesus was revealed to the disciples after he was raised from the
dead.
Joh 21:15 When they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, "Simon, son of John, do you love me
more than these?" He said to him, "Yes, Lord; you know that I love you." He said to him, "Feed my lambs."
Joh 21:16 He said to him a second time, "Simon, son of John, do you love me?" He said to him, "Yes, Lord; you
know that I love you." He said to him, "Tend my sheep."
Joh 21:17 He said to him the third time, "Simon, son of John, do you love me?" Peter was grieved because he
said to him the third time, "Do you love me?" and he said to him, "Lord, you know everything; you know that I
love you." Jesus said to him, "Feed my sheep.
Joh 21:18 Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you
wanted, but when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where
you do not want to go."
Joh 21:19 (This he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify God.) And after saying this he said to
him, "Follow me."
Joh 21:20 Peter turned and saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following them, the one who had been reclining
at table close to him and had said, "Lord, who is it that is going to betray you?"
Joh 21:21 When Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, "Lord, what about this man?"
Joh 21:22 Jesus said to him, "If it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me!"
Joh 21:23 So the saying spread abroad among the brothers that this disciple was not to die; yet Jesus did not
say to him that he was not to die, but, "If it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you?"
Joh 21:24 This is the disciple who is bearing witness about these things, and who has written these things, and
we know that his testimony is true.
Joh 21:25 Now there are also many other things that Jesus did. Were every one of them to be written, I suppose
that the world itself could not contain the books that would be written.
Act 1:1 In the first book, O Theophilus, I have dealt with all that Jesus began to do and teach,
Act 1:2 until the day when he was taken up, after he had given commands through the Holy Spirit to the
apostles whom he had chosen.
Act 1:3 To them he presented himself alive after his suffering by many proofs, appearing to them during forty
days and speaking about the kingdom of God.
Act 1:4 And while staying with them he ordered them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of
the Father, which, he said, "you heard from me;
Act 1:5 for John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now."
Act 1:6 So when they had come together, they asked him, "Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to
Israel?"Act 1:7 He said to them, "It is not for you to know times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own
authority.
Act 1:8 But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witactnesses in
Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth."
Act 1:9 And when he had said these things, as they were looking on, he was lifted up, and a cloud took him out
of their sight.
Act 1:10 And while they were gazing into heaven as he went, behold, two men stood by them in white robes,
Act 1:11 and said, "Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus, who was taken up from
you into heaven, will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven."
Act 1:12 Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath
day's journey away.
Act 1:13 And when they had entered, they went up to the upper room, where they were staying, Peter and John
and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus and Simon
the Zealot and Judas the son of James.
Act 1:14 All these with one accord were devoting themselves to prayer, together with the women and Mary the
mother of Jesus, and his brothers.
Act 1:15 In those days Peter stood up among the brothers (the company of persons was in all about 120) and
said,
Act 1:16 "Brothers, the Scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke beforehand by the mouth of
David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus.
Act 1:17 For he was numbered among us and was allotted his share in this ministry."
Act 1:18 (Now this man bought a field with the reward of his wickedness, and falling headlong he burst open in
the middle and all his bowels gushed out.
Act 1:19 And it became known to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the field was called in their own
language Akeldama, that is, Field of Blood.)
Act 1:20 "For it is written in the Book of Psalms, "' May his camp become desolate, and let there be no one to
dwell in it'; and "'Let another take his office.'
Act 1:21 So one of the men who have accompanied us during all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out
among us,
Act 1:22 beginning from the baptism of John until the day when he was taken up from us- one of these men
must become with us a witness to his resurrection."
Act 1:23 And they put forward two, Joseph called Barsabbas, who was also called Justus, and Matthias.
Act 1:24 And they prayed and said, "You, Lord, who know the hearts of all, show which one of these two you
have chosen
Act 1:25 to take the place in this ministry and apostleship from which Judas turned aside to go to his own
place."
Act 1:26 And they cast lots for them, and the lot fell on Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven
apostles.
Act 2:1 When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place.
Act 2:2 And suddenly there came from heaven a sound like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house
where they were sitting.
Act 2:3 And divided tongues as of fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them.
Act 2:4 And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them
utterance.
Act 2:5 Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven.
Act 2:6 And at this sound the multitude came together, and they were bewildered, because each one was
hearing them speak in his own language.
Act 2:7 And they were amazed and astonished, saying, "Are not all these who are speaking Galileans?
Act 2:8 And how is it that we hear, each of us in his own native language?
Act 2:9 Parthians and Medes and Elamites and residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and
Asia,
Act 2:10 Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya belonging to Cyrene, and visitors from Rome,
Act 2:11 both Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabians- we hear them telling in our own tongues the mighty
works of God."
Act 2:12 And all were amazed and perplexed, saying to one another, "What does this mean?"
Act 2:13 But others mocking said, "They are filled with new wine."
Act 2:14 But Peter, standing with the eleven, lifted up his voice and addressed them, "Men of Judea and all who
dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and give ear to my words.
Act 2:15 For these men are not drunk, as you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day.Act 2:16 But this is what was uttered through the prophet Joel:
Act 2:17 "'And in the last days it shall be, God declares, that I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh, and your sons
and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream
dreams;
Act 2:18 even on my male servants and female servants in those days I will pour out my Spirit, and they shall
prophesy.
Act 2:19 And I will show wonders in the heavens above and signs on the earth below, blood, and fire, and vapor
of smoke;
Act 2:20 the sun shall be turned to darkness and the moon to blood, before the day of the Lord comes, the great
and magnificent day.
Act 2:21 And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.'
Act 2:22 "Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you by God with mighty works
and wonders and signs that God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves knowAct 2:23 this Jesus, delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and
killed by the hands of lawless men.
Act 2:24 God raised him up, loosing the pangs of death, because it was not possible for him to be held by it.
Act 2:25 For David says concerning him, "' I saw the Lord always before me, for he is at my right hand that I
may not be shaken;
Act 2:26 therefore my heart was glad, and my tongue rejoiced; my flesh also will dwell in hope.
Act 2:27 For you will not abandon my soul to Hades, or let your Holy One see corruption.
Act 2:28 You have made known to me the paths of life; you will make me full of gladness with your presence.'
Act 2:29 "Brothers, I may say to you with confidence about the patriarch David that he both died and was
buried, and his tomb is with us to this day.
Act 2:30 Being therefore a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that he would set one
of his descendants on his throne,
Act 2:31 he foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, that he was not abandoned to Hades, nor
did his flesh see corruption.
Act 2:32 This Jesus God raised up, and of that we all are witnesses.
Act 2:33 Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of
the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing.
Act 2:34 For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he himself says, "' The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my
right hand,
Act 2:35 until I make your enemies your footstool.'
Act 2:36 Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this
Jesus whom you crucified."
Act 2:37 Now when they heard this they were cut to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles,
"Brothers, what shall we do?"
Act 2:38 And Peter said to them, "Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the
forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
Act 2:39 For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our
God calls to himself."
Act 2:40 And with many other words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, "Save yourselves
from this crooked generation."
Act 2:41 So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand
souls.
Act 2:42 And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the
prayers.
Act 2:43 And awe came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles.
Act 2:44 And all who believed were together and had all things in common.
Act 2:45 And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all, as any had
need.
Act 2:46 And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their
food with glad and generous hearts,
Act 2:47 praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day
those who were being saved.
Act 3:1 Now Peter and John were going up to the temple at the hour of prayer, the ninth hour.
Act 3:2 And a man lame from birth was being carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple that is
called the Beautiful Gate to ask alms of those entering the temple.
Act 3:3 Seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, he asked to receive alms.Act 3:4 And Peter directed his gaze at him, as did John, and said, "Look at us."
Act 3:5 And he fixed his attention on them, expecting to receive something from them.
Act 3:6 But Peter said, "I have no silver and gold, but what I do have I give to you. In the name of Jesus Christ
of Nazareth, rise up and walk!"
Act 3:7 And he took him by the right hand and raised him up, and immediately his feet and ankles were made
strong.
Act 3:8 And leaping up he stood and began to walk, and entered the temple with them, walking and leaping and
praising God.
Act 3:9 And all the people saw him walking and praising God,
Act 3:10 and recognized him as the one who sat at the Beautiful Gate of the temple, asking for alms. And they
were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him.
Act 3:11 While he clung to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the portico called Solomon's,
astounded.
Act 3:12 And when Peter saw it he addressed the people: "Men of Israel, why do you wonder at this, or why do
you stare at us, as though by our own power or piety we have made him walk?
Act 3:13 The God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified his
servant Jesus, whom you delivered over and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had decided to release
him.
Act 3:14 But you denied the Holy and Righteous One, and asked for a murderer to be granted to you,
Act 3:15 and you killed the Author of life, whom God raised from the dead. To this we are witnesses.
Act 3:16 And his name- by faith in his name- has made this man strong whom you see and know, and the faith
that is through Jesus has given the man this perfect health in the presence of you all.
Act 3:17 "And now, brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance, as did also your rulers.
Act 3:18 But what God foretold by the mouth of all the prophets, that his Christ would suffer, he thus fulfilled.
Act 3:19 Repent therefore, and turn again, that your sins may be blotted out,
Act 3:20 that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, and that he may send the Christ
appointed for you, Jesus,
Act 3:21 whom heaven must receive until the time for restoring all the things about which God spoke by the
mouth of his holy prophets long ago.
Act 3:22 Moses said, 'The Lord God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers. You shall listen to
him in whatever he tells you.
Act 3:23 And it shall be that every soul who does not listen to that prophet shall be destroyed from the people.'
Act 3:24 And all the prophets who have spoken, from Samuel and those who came after him, also proclaimed
these days.
Act 3:25 You are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant that God made with your fathers, saying to
Abraham, 'And in your offspring shall all the families of the earth be blessed.'
Act 3:26 God, having raised up his servant, sent him to you first, to bless you by turning every one of you from
your wickedness."
Act 4:1 And as they were speaking to the people, the priests and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees
came upon them,
Act 4:2 greatly annoyed because they were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from
the dead.
Act 4:3 And they arrested them and put them in custody until the next day, for it was already evening.
Act 4:4 But many of those who had heard the word believed, and the number of the men came to about five
thousand.
Act 4:5 On the next day their rulers and elders and scribes gathered together in Jerusalem,
Act 4:6 with Annas the high priest and Caiaphas and John and Alexander, and all who were of the high-priestly
family.
Act 4:7 And when they had set them in the midst, they inquired, "By what power or by what name did you do
this?"
Act 4:8 Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, "Rulers of the people and elders,
Act 4:9 if we are being examined today concerning a good deed done to a crippled man, by what means this
man has been healed,
Act 4:10 let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth,
whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead- by him this man is standing before you well.
Act 4:11 This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone.
Act 4:12 And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by
which we must be saved."
Act 4:13 Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were uneducated,common men, they were astonished. And they recognized that they had been with Jesus.
Act 4:14 But seeing the man who was healed standing beside them, they had nothing to say in opposition.
Act 4:15 But when they had commanded them to leave the council, they conferred with one another,
Act 4:16 saying, "What shall we do with these men? For that a notable sign has been performed through them is
evident to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it.
Act 4:17 But in order that it may spread no further among the people, let us warn them to speak no more to
anyone in this name."
Act 4:18 So they called them and charged them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus.
Act 4:19 But Peter and John answered them, "Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than
to God, you must judge,
Act 4:20 for we cannot but speak of what we have seen and heard."
Act 4:21 And when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding no way to punish them, because
of the people, for all were praising God for what had happened.
Act 4:22 For the man on whom this sign of healing was performed was more than forty years old.
Act 4:23 When they were released, they went to their friends and reported what the chief priests and the elders
had said to them.
Act 4:24 And when they heard it, they lifted their voices together to God and said, "Sovereign Lord, who made
the heaven and the earth and the sea and everything in them,
Act 4:25 who through the mouth of our father David, your servant, said by the Holy Spirit, "' Why did the Gentiles
rage, and the peoples plot in vain?
Act 4:26 The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers were gathered together, against the Lord and
against his Anointed'-
Act 4:27 for truly in this city there were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed,
both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel,
Act 4:28 to do whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to take place.
Act 4:29 And now, Lord, look upon their threats and grant to your servants to continue to speak your word with
all boldness,
Act 4:30 while you stretch out your hand to heal, and signs and wonders are performed through the name of
your holy servant Jesus."
Act 4:31 And when they had prayed, the place in which they were gathered together was shaken, and they were
all filled with the Holy Spirit and continued to speak the word of God with boldness.
Act 4:32 Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart and soul, and no one said that any of the
things that belonged to him was his own, but they had everything in common.
Act 4:33 And with great power the apostles were giving their testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus,
and great grace was upon them all.
Act 4:34 There was not a needy person among them, for as many as were owners of lands or houses sold them
and brought the proceeds of what was sold
Act 4:35 and laid it at the apostles' feet, and it was distributed to each as any had need.
Act 4:36 Thus Joseph, who was also called by the apostles Barnabas (which means son of encouragement), a
Levite, a native of Cyprus,
Act 4:37 sold a field that belonged to him and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet.
Act 5:1 But a man named Ananias, with his wife Sapphira, sold a piece of property,
Act 5:2 and with his wife's knowledge he kept back for himself some of the proceeds and brought only a part of
it and laid it at the apostles' feet.
Act 5:3 But Peter said, "Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back for
yourself part of the proceeds of the land?
Act 5:4 While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not at your disposal?
Why is it that you have contrived this deed in your heart? You have not lied to men but to God."
Act 5:5 When Ananias heard these words, he fell down and breathed his last. And great fear came upon all who
heard of it.
Act 5:6 The young men rose and wrapped him up and carried him out and buried him.
Act 5:7 After an interval of about three hours his wife came in, not knowing what had happened.
Act 5:8 And Peter said to her, "Tell me whether you sold the land for so much." And she said, "Yes, for so
much."
Act 5:9 But Peter said to her, "How is it that you have agreed together to test the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the
feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out."
Act 5:10 Immediately she fell down at his feet and breathed her last. When the young men came in they found
her dead, and they carried her out and buried her beside her husband.
Act 5:11 And great fear came upon the whole church and upon all who heard of these things.Act 5:12 Now many signs and wonders were regularly done among the people by the hands of the apostles.
And they were all together in Solomon's Portico.
Act 5:13 None of the rest dared join them, but the people held them in high esteem.
Act 5:14 And more than ever believers were added to the Lord, multitudes of both men and women,
Act 5:15 so that they even carried out the sick into the streets and laid them on cots and mats, that as Peter
came by at least his shadow might fall on some of them.
Act 5:16 The people also gathered from the towns around Jerusalem, bringing the sick and those afflicted with
unclean spirits, and they were all healed.
Act 5:17 But the high priest rose up, and all who were with him (that is, the party of the Sadducees), and filled
with jealousy
Act 5:18 they arrested the apostles and put them in the public prison.
Act 5:19 But during the night an angel of the Lord opened the prison doors and brought them out, and said,
Act 5:20 "Go and stand in the temple and speak to the people all the words of this Life."
Act 5:21 And when they heard this, they entered the temple at daybreak and began to teach. Now when the
high priest came, and those who were with him, they called together the council and all the senate of Israel and
sent to the prison to have them brought.
Act 5:22 But when the officers came, they did not find them in the prison, so they returned and reported,
Act 5:23 "We found the prison securely locked and the guards standing at the doors, but when we opened them
we found no one inside."
Act 5:24 Now when the captain of the temple and the chief priests heard these words, they were greatly
perplexed about them, wondering what this would come to.
Act 5:25 And someone came and told them, "Look! The men whom you put in prison are standing in the temple
and teaching the people."
Act 5:26 Then the captain with the officers went and brought them, but not by force, for they were afraid of being
stoned by the people.
Act 5:27 And when they had brought them, they set them before the council. And the high priest questioned
them,
Act 5:28 saying, "We strictly charged you not to teach in this name, yet here you have filled Jerusalem with your
teaching, and you intend to bring this man's blood upon us."
Act 5:29 But Peter and the apostles answered, "We must obey God rather than men.
Act 5:30 The God of our fathers raised Jesus, whom you killed by hanging him on a tree.
Act 5:31 God exalted him at his right hand as Leader and Savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of
sins.
Act 5:32 And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who
obey him."
Act 5:33 When they heard this, they were enraged and wanted to kill them.
Act 5:34 But a Pharisee in the council named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law held in honor by all the people,
stood up and gave orders to put the men outside for a little while.
Act 5:35 And he said to them, "Men of Israel, take care what you are about to do with these men.
Act 5:36 For before these days Theudas rose up, claiming to be somebody, and a number of men, about four
hundred, joined him. He was killed, and all who followed him were dispersed and came to nothing.
Act 5:37 After him Judas the Galilean rose up in the days of the census and drew away some of the people after
him. He too perished, and all who followed him were scattered.
Act 5:38 So in the present case I tell you, keep away from these men and let them alone, for if this plan or this
undertaking is of man, it will fail;
Act 5:39 but if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow them. You might even be found opposing God!" So
they took his advice,
Act 5:40 and when they had called in the apostles, they beat them and charged them not to speak in the name
of Jesus, and let them go.
Act 5:41 Then they left the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for
the name.
Act 5:42 And every day, in the temple and from house to house, they did not cease teaching and preaching
Jesus as the Christ.
Act 6:1 Now in these days when the disciples were increasing in number, a complaint by the Hellenists arose
against the Hebrews because their widows were being neglected in the daily distribution.
Act 6:2 And the twelve summoned the full number of the disciples and said, "It is not right that we should give
up preaching the word of God to serve tables.
Act 6:3 Therefore, brothers, pick out from among you seven men of good repute, full of the Spirit and of wisdom,
whom we will appoint to this duty.Act 6:4 But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the word."
Act 6:5 And what they said pleased the whole gathering, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the
Holy Spirit, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolaus, a proselyte of
Antioch.
Act 6:6 These they set before the apostles, and they prayed and laid their hands on them.
Act 6:7 And the word of God continued to increase, and the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in
Jerusalem, and a great many of the priests became obedient to the faith.
Act 6:8 And Stephen, full of grace and power, was doing great wonders and signs among the people.
Act 6:9 Then some of those who belonged to the synagogue of the Freedmen (as it was called), and of the
Cyrenians, and of the Alexandrians, and of those from Cilicia and Asia, rose up and disputed with Stephen.
Act 6:10 But they could not withstand the wisdom and the Spirit with which he was speaking.
Act 6:11 Then they secretly instigated men who said, "We have heard him speak blasphemous words against
Moses and God."
Act 6:12 And they stirred up the people and the elders and the scribes, and they came upon him and seized him
and brought him before the council,
Act 6:13 and they set up false witnesses who said, "This man never ceases to speak words against this holy
place and the law,
Act 6:14 for we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place and will change the
customs that Moses delivered to us."
Act 6:15 And gazing at him, all who sat in the council saw that his face was like the face of an angel.
Act 7:1 And the high priest said, "Are these things so?"
Act 7:2 And Stephen said: "Brothers and fathers, hear me. The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham
when he was in Mesopotamia, before he lived in Haran,
Act 7:3 and said to him, 'Go out from your land and from your kindred and go into the land that I will show you.'
Act 7:4 Then he went out from the land of the Chaldeans and lived in Haran. And after his father died, God
removed him from there into this land in which you are now living.
Act 7:5 Yet he gave him no inheritance in it, not even a foot's length, but promised to give it to him as a
possession and to his offspring after him, though he had no child.
Act 7:6 And God spoke to this effect- that his offspring would be sojourners in a land belonging to others, who
would enslave them and afflict them four hundred years.
Act 7:7 'But I will judge the nation that they serve,' said God, 'and after that they shall come out and worship me
in this place.'
Act 7:8 And he gave him the covenant of circumcision. And so Abraham became the father of Isaac, and
circumcised him on the eighth day, and Isaac became the father of Jacob, and Jacob of the twelve patriarchs.
Act 7:9 "And the patriarchs, jealous of Joseph, sold him into Egypt; but God was with him
Act 7:10 and rescued him out of all his afflictions and gave him favor and wisdom before Pharaoh, king of Egypt,
who made him ruler over Egypt and over all his household.
Act 7:11 Now there came a famine throughout all Egypt and Canaan, and great affliction, and our fathers could
find no food.
Act 7:12 But when Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt, he sent out our fathers on their first visit.
Act 7:13 And on the second visit Joseph made himself known to his brothers, and Joseph's family became
known to Pharaoh.
Act 7:14 And Joseph sent and summoned Jacob his father and all his kindred, seventy-five persons in all.
Act 7:15 And Jacob went down into Egypt, and he died, he and our fathers,
Act 7:16 and they were carried back to Shechem and laid in the tomb that Abraham had bought for a sum of
silver from the sons of Hamor in Shechem.
Act 7:17 "But as the time of the promise drew near, which God had granted to Abraham, the people increased
and multiplied in Egypt
Act 7:18 until there arose over Egypt another king who did not know Joseph.
Act 7:19 He dealt shrewdly with our race and forced our fathers to expose their infants, so that they would not
be kept alive.
Act 7:20 At this time Moses was born; and he was beautiful in God's sight. And he was brought up for three
months in his father's house,
Act 7:21 and when he was exposed, Pharaoh's daughter adopted him and brought him up as her own son.
Act 7:22 And Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was mighty in his words and
deeds.
Act 7:23 "When he was forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brothers, the children of Israel.
Act 7:24 And seeing one of them being wronged, he defended the oppressed man and avenged him by striking
down the Egyptian.Act 7:25 He supposed that his brothers would understand that God was giving them salvation by his hand, but
they did not understand.
Act 7:26 And on the following day he appeared to them as they were quarreling and tried to reconcile them,
saying, 'Men, you are brothers. Why do you wrong each other?'
Act 7:27 But the man who was wronging his neighbor thrust him aside, saying, 'Who made you a ruler and a
judge over us?
Act 7:28 Do you want to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday?'
Act 7:29 At this retort Moses fled and became an exile in the land of Midian, where he became the father of two
sons.
Act 7:30 "Now when forty years had passed, an angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai, in a
flame of fire in a bush.
Act 7:31 When Moses saw it, he was amazed at the sight, and as he drew near to look, there came the voice of
the Lord:
Act 7:32 'I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob.' And Moses trembled
and did not dare to look.
Act 7:33 Then the Lord said to him, 'Take off the sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is
holy ground.
Act 7:34 I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and have heard their groaning, and I
have come down to deliver them. And now come, I will send you to Egypt.'
Act 7:35 "This Moses, whom they rejected, saying, 'Who made you a ruler and a judge?'- this man God sent as
both ruler and redeemer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush.
Act 7:36 This man led them out, performing wonders and signs in Egypt and at the Red Sea and in the
wilderness for forty years.
Act 7:37 This is the Moses who said to the Israelites, 'God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your
brothers.'
Act 7:38 This is the one who was in the congregation in the wilderness with the angel who spoke to him at
Mount Sinai, and with our fathers. He received living oracles to give to us.
Act 7:39 Our fathers refused to obey him, but thrust him aside, and in their hearts they turned to Egypt,
Act 7:40 saying to Aaron, 'Make for us gods who will go before us. As for this Moses who led us out from the
land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him.'
Act 7:41 And they made a calf in those days, and offered a sacrifice to the idol and were rejoicing in the works
of their hands.
Act 7:42 But God turned away and gave them over to worship the host of heaven, as it is written in the book of
the prophets: "' Did you bring to me slain beasts and sacrifices, during the forty years in the wilderness, O house
of Israel?
Act 7:43 You took up the tent of Moloch and the star of your god Rephan, the images that you made to worship;
and I will send you into exile beyond Babylon.'
Act 7:44 "Our fathers had the tent of witness in the wilderness, just as he who spoke to Moses directed him to
make it, according to the pattern that he had seen.
Act 7:45 Our fathers in turn brought it in with Joshua when they dispossessed the nations that God drove out
before our fathers. So it was until the days of David,
Act 7:46 who found favor in the sight of God and asked to find a dwelling place for the God of Jacob.
Act 7:47 But it was Solomon who built a house for him.
Act 7:48 Yet the Most High does not dwell in houses made by hands, as the prophet says,
Act 7:49 "'Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What kind of house will you build for me, says the
Lord, or what is the place of my rest?
Act 7:50 Did not my hand make all these things?'
Act 7:51 "You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit. As your
fathers did, so do you.
Act 7:52 Which of the prophets did not your fathers persecute? And they killed those who announced
beforehand the coming of the Righteous One, whom you have now betrayed and murdered,
Act 7:53 you who received the law as delivered by angels and did not keep it."
Act 7:54 Now when they heard these things they were enraged, and they ground their teeth at him.
Act 7:55 But he, full of the Holy Spirit, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the
right hand of God.
Act 7:56 And he said, "Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of
God."
Act 7:57 But they cried out with a loud voice and stopped their ears and rushed together at him.
Act 7:58 Then they cast him out of the city and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their garments at thefeet of a young man named Saul.
Act 7:59 And as they were stoning Stephen, he called out, "Lord Jesus, receive my spirit."
Act 7:60 And falling to his knees he cried out with a loud voice, "Lord, do not hold this sin against them." And
when he had said this, he fell asleep.
Act 8:1 And Saul approved of his execution. And there arose on that day a great persecution against the church
in Jerusalem, and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles.
Act 8:2 Devout men buried Stephen and made great lamentation over him.
Act 8:3 But Saul was ravaging the church, and entering house after house, he dragged off men and women and
committed them to prison.
Act 8:4 Now those who were scattered went about preaching the word.
Act 8:5 Philip went down to the city of Samaria and proclaimed to them the Christ.
Act 8:6 And the crowds with one accord paid attention to what was being said by Philip when they heard him
and saw the signs that he did.
Act 8:7 For unclean spirits came out of many who were possessed, crying with a loud voice, and many who
were paralyzed or lame were healed.
Act 8:8 So there was much joy in that city.
Act 8:9 But there was a man named Simon, who had previously practiced magic in the city and amazed the
people of Samaria, saying that he himself was somebody great.
Act 8:10 They all paid attention to him, from the least to the greatest, saying, "This man is the power of God that
is called Great."
Act 8:11 And they paid attention to him because for a long time he had amazed them with his magic.
Act 8:12 But when they believed Philip as he preached good news about the kingdom of God and the name of
Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women.
Act 8:13 Even Simon himself believed, and after being baptized he continued with Philip. And seeing signs and
great miracles performed, he was amazed.
Act 8:14 Now when the apostles at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent to
them Peter and John,
Act 8:15 who came down and prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit,
Act 8:16 for he had not yet fallen on any of them, but they had only been baptized in the name of the Lord
Jesus.
Act 8:17 Then they laid their hands on them and they received the Holy Spirit.
Act 8:18 Now when Simon saw that the Spirit was given through the laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered
them money,
Act 8:19 saying, "Give me this power also, so that anyone on whom I lay my hands may receive the Holy Spirit."
Act 8:20 But Peter said to him, "May your silver perish with you, because you thought you could obtain the gift
of God with money!
Act 8:21 You have neither part nor lot in this matter, for your heart is not right before God.
Act 8:22 Repent, therefore, of this wickedness of yours, and pray to the Lord that, if possible, the intent of your
heart may be forgiven you.
Act 8:23 For I see that you are in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of iniquity."
Act 8:24 And Simon answered, "Pray for me to the Lord, that nothing of what you have said may come upon
me."
Act 8:25 Now when they had testified and spoken the word of the Lord, they returned to Jerusalem, preaching
the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans.
Act 8:26 Now an angel of the Lord said to Philip, "Rise and go toward the south to the road that goes down from
Jerusalem to Gaza." This is a desert place.
Act 8:27 And he rose and went. And there was an Ethiopian, a eunuch, a court official of Candace, queen of the
Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her treasure. He had come to Jerusalem to worship
Act 8:28 and was returning, seated in his chariot, and he was reading the prophet Isaiah.
Act 8:29 And the Spirit said to Philip, "Go over and join this chariot."
Act 8:30 So Philip ran to him and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet and asked, "Do you understand what
you are reading?"
Act 8:31 And he said, "How can I, unless someone guides me?" And he invited Philip to come up and sit with
him.
Act 8:32 Now the passage of the Scripture that he was reading was this: "Like a sheep he was led to the
slaughter and like a lamb before its shearer is silent, so he opens not his mouth.
Act 8:33 In his humiliation justice was denied him. Who can describe his generation? For his life is taken away
from the earth."
Act 8:34 And the eunuch said to Philip, "About whom, I ask you, does the prophet say this, about himself orabout someone else?"
Act 8:35 Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning with this Scripture he told him the good news about
Jesus.
Act 8:36 And as they were going along the road they came to some water, and the eunuch said, "See, here is
water! What prevents me from being baptized?"
Act 8:37
Act 8:38 And he commanded the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch,
and he baptized him.
Act 8:39 And when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord carried Philip away, and the eunuch saw
him no more, and went on his way rejoicing.
Act 8:40 But Philip found himself at Azotus, and as he passed through he preached the gospel to all the towns
until he came to Caesarea.
Act 9:1 But Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest
Act 9:2 and asked him for letters to the synagogues at Damascus, so that if he found any belonging to the Way,
men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem.
Act 9:3 Now as he went on his way, he approached Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven flashed
around him.
Act 9:4 And falling to the ground he heard a voice saying to him, "Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?"
Act 9:5 And he said, "Who are you, Lord?" And he said, "I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting.
Act 9:6 But rise and enter the city, and you will be told what you are to do."
Act 9:7 The men who were traveling with him stood speechless, hearing the voice but seeing no one.
Act 9:8 Saul rose from the ground, and although his eyes were opened, he saw nothing. So they led him by the
hand and brought him into Damascus.
Act 9:9 And for three days he was without sight, and neither ate nor drank.
Act 9:10 Now there was a disciple at Damascus named Ananias. The Lord said to him in a vision, "Ananias."
And he said, "Here I am, Lord."
Act 9:11 And the Lord said to him, "Rise and go to the street called Straight, and at the house of Judas look for
a man of Tarsus named Saul, for behold, he is praying,
Act 9:12 and he has seen in a vision a man named Ananias come in and lay his hands on him so that he might
regain his sight."
Act 9:13 But Ananias answered, "Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how much evil he has done to
your saints at Jerusalem.
Act 9:14 And here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who call on your name."
Act 9:15 But the Lord said to him, "Go, for he is a chosen instrument of mine to carry my name before the
Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel.
Act 9:16 For I will show him how much he must suffer for the sake of my name."
Act 9:17 So Ananias departed and entered the house. And laying his hands on him he said, "Brother Saul, the
Lord Jesus who appeared to you on the road by which you came has sent me so that you may regain your sight
and be filled with the Holy Spirit."
Act 9:18 And immediately something like scales fell from his eyes, and he regained his sight. Then he rose and
was baptized;
Act 9:19 and taking food, he was strengthened. For some days he was with the disciples at Damascus.
Act 9:20 And immediately he proclaimed Jesus in the synagogues, saying, "He is the Son of God."
Act 9:21 And all who heard him were amazed and said, "Is not this the man who made havoc in Jerusalem of
those who called upon this name? And has he not come here for this purpose, to bring them bound before the
chief priests?"
Act 9:22 But Saul increased all the more in strength, and confounded the Jews who lived in Damascus by
proving that Jesus was the Christ.
Act 9:23 When many days had passed, the Jews plotted to kill him,
Act 9:24 but their plot became known to Saul. They were watching the gates day and night in order to kill him,
Act 9:25 but his disciples took him by night and let him down through an opening in the wall, lowering him in a
basket.
Act 9:26 And when he had come to Jerusalem, he attempted to join the disciples. And they were all afraid of
him, for they did not believe that he was a disciple.
Act 9:27 But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles and declared to them how on the road he had
seen the Lord, who spoke to him, and how at Damascus he had preached boldly in the name of Jesus.
Act 9:28 So he went in and out among them at Jerusalem, preaching boldly in the name of the Lord.
Act 9:29 And he spoke and disputed against the Hellenists. But they were seeking to kill him.
Act 9:30 And when the brothers learned this, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him off to Tarsus.Act 9:31 So the church throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace and was being built up. And
walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, it multiplied.
Act 9:32 Now as Peter went here and there among them all, he came down also to the saints who lived at
Lydda.
Act 9:33 There he found a man named Aeneas, bedridden for eight years, who was paralyzed.
Act 9:34 And Peter said to him, "Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you; rise and make your bed." And immediately he
rose.
Act 9:35 And all the residents of Lydda and Sharon saw him, and they turned to the Lord.
Act 9:36 Now there was in Joppa a disciple named Tabitha, which, translated, means Dorcas. She was full of
good works and acts of charity.
Act 9:37 In those days she became ill and died, and when they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room.
Act 9:38 Since Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples, hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to him, urging
him, "Please come to us without delay."
Act 9:39 So Peter rose and went with them. And when he arrived, they took him to the upper room. All the
widows stood beside him weeping and showing tunics and other garments that Dorcas made while she was with
them.
Act 9:40 But Peter put them all outside, and knelt down and prayed; and turning to the body he said, "Tabitha,
arise." And she opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter she sat up.
Act 9:41 And he gave her his hand and raised her up. Then calling the saints and widows, he presented her
alive.
Act 9:42 And it became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed in the Lord.
Act 9:43 And he stayed in Joppa for many days with one Simon, a tanner.
Act 10:1 At Caesarea there was a man named Cornelius, a centurion of what was known as the Italian Cohort,
Act 10:2 a devout man who feared God with all his household, gave alms generously to the people, and prayed
continually to God.
Act 10:3 About the ninth hour of the day he saw clearly in a vision an angel of God come in and say to him,
"Cornelius."
Act 10:4 And he stared at him in terror and said, "What is it, Lord?" And he said to him, "Your prayers and your
alms have ascended as a memorial before God.
Act 10:5 And now send men to Joppa and bring one Simon who is called Peter.
Act 10:6 He is lodging with one Simon, a tanner, whose house is by the seaside."
Act 10:7 When the angel who spoke to him had departed, he called two of his servants and a devout soldier
from among those who attended him,
Act 10:8 and having related everything to them, he sent them to Joppa.
Act 10:9 The next day, as they were on their journey and approaching the city, Peter went up on the housetop
about the sixth hour to pray.
Act 10:10 And he became hungry and wanted something to eat, but while they were preparing it, he fell into a
trance
Act 10:11 and saw the heavens opened and something like a great sheet descending, being let down by its four
corners upon the earth.
Act 10:12 In it were all kinds of animals and reptiles and birds of the air.
Act 10:13 And there came a voice to him: "Rise, Peter; kill and eat."
Act 10:14 But Peter said, "By no means, Lord; for I have never eaten anything that is common or unclean."
Act 10:15 And the voice came to him again a second time, "What God has made clean, do not call common."
Act 10:16 This happened three times, and the thing was taken up at once to heaven.
Act 10:17 Now while Peter was inwardly perplexed as to what the vision that he had seen might mean, behold,
the men who were sent by Cornelius, having made inquiry for Simon's house, stood at the gate
Act 10:18 and called out to ask whether Simon who was called Peter was lodging there.
Act 10:19 And while Peter was pondering the vision, the Spirit said to him, "Behold, three men are looking for
you.
Act 10:20 Rise and go down and accompany them without hesitation, for I have sent them."
Act 10:21 And Peter went down to the men and said, "I am the one you are looking for. What is the reason for
your coming?"
Act 10:22 And they said, "Cornelius, a centurion, an upright and God-fearing man, who is well spoken of by the
whole Jewish nation, was directed by a holy angel to send for you to come to his house and to hear what you
have to say."
Act 10:23 So he invited them in to be his guests. The next day he rose and went away with them, and some of
the brothers from Joppa accompanied him.
Act 10:24 And on the following day they entered Caesarea. Cornelius was expecting them and had calledtogether his relatives and close friends.
Act 10:25 When Peter entered, Cornelius met him and fell down at his feet and worshiped him.
Act 10:26 But Peter lifted him up, saying, "Stand up; I too am a man."
Act 10:27 And as he talked with him, he went in and found many persons gathered.
Act 10:28 And he said to them, "You yourselves know how unlawful it is for a Jew to associate with or to visit
anyone of another nation, but God has shown me that I should not call any person common or unclean.
Act 10:29 So when I was sent for, I came without objection. I ask then why you sent for me."
Act 10:30 And Cornelius said, "Four days ago, about this hour, I was praying in my house at the ninth hour, and
behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing
Act 10:31 and said, 'Cornelius, your prayer has been heard and your alms have been remembered before God.
Act 10:32 Send therefore to Joppa and ask for Simon who is called Peter. He is lodging in the house of Simon,
a tanner, by the sea.'
Act 10:33 So I sent for you at once, and you have been kind enough to come. Now therefore we are all here in
the presence of God to hear all that you have been commanded by the Lord."
Act 10:34 So Peter opened his mouth and said: "Truly I understand that God shows no partiality,
Act 10:35 but in every nation anyone who fears him and does what is right is acceptable to him.
Act 10:36 As for the word that he sent to Israel, preaching good news of peace through Jesus Christ ( he is Lord
of all),
Act 10:37 you yourselves know what happened throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism
that John proclaimed:
Act 10:38 how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. He went about doing good
and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him.
Act 10:39 And we are witnesses of all that he did both in the country of the Jews and in Jerusalem. They put
him to death by hanging him on a tree,
Act 10:40 but God raised him on the third day and made him to appear,
Act 10:41 not to all the people but to us who had been chosen by God as witnesses, who ate and drank with
him after he rose from the dead.
Act 10:42 And he commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that he is the one appointed by God to
be judge of the living and the dead.
Act 10:43 To him all the prophets bear witness that everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins
through his name."
Act 10:44 While Peter was still saying these things, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the word.
Act 10:45 And the believers from among the circumcised who had come with Peter were amazed, because the
gift of the Holy Spirit was poured out even on the Gentiles.
Act 10:46 For they were hearing them speaking in tongues and extolling God. Then Peter declared,
Act 10:47 "Can anyone withhold water for baptizing these people, who have received the Holy Spirit just as we
have?"
Act 10:48 And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they asked him to remain
for some days.
Act 11:1 Now the apostles and the brothers who were throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had
received the word of God.
Act 11:2 So when Peter went up to Jerusalem, the circumcision party criticized him, saying,
Act 11:3 "You went to uncircumcised men and ate with them."
Act 11:4 But Peter began and explained it to them in order:
Act 11:5 "I was in the city of Joppa praying, and in a trance I saw a vision, something like a great sheet
descending, being let down from heaven by its four corners, and it came down to me.
Act 11:6 Looking at it closely, I observed animals and beasts of prey and reptiles and birds of the air.
Act 11:7 And I heard a voice saying to me, 'Rise, Peter; kill and eat.'
Act 11:8 But I said, 'By no means, Lord; for nothing common or unclean has ever entered my mouth.'
Act 11:9 But the voice answered a second time from heaven, 'What God has made clean, do not call common.'
Act 11:10 This happened three times, and all was drawn up again into heaven.
Act 11:11 And behold, at that very moment three men arrived at the house in which we were, sent to me from
Caesarea.
Act 11:12 And the Spirit told me to go with them, making no distinction. These six brothers also accompanied
me, and we entered the man's house.
Act 11:13 And he told us how he had seen the angel stand in his house and say, 'Send to Joppa and bring
Simon who is called Peter;
Act 11:14 he will declare to you a message by which you will be saved, you and all your household.'
Act 11:15 As I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them just as on us at the beginning.Act 11:16 And I remembered the word of the Lord, how he said, 'John baptized with water, but you will be
baptized with the Holy Spirit.'
Act 11:17 If then God gave the same gift to them as he gave to us when we believed in the Lord Jesus Christ,
who was I that I could stand in God's way?"
Act 11:18 When they heard these things they fell silent. And they glorified God, saying, "Then to the Gentiles
also God has granted repentance that leads to life."
Act 11:19 Now those who were scattered because of the persecution that arose over Stephen traveled as far as
Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, speaking the word to no one except Jews.
Act 11:20 But there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who on coming to Antioch spoke to the
Hellenists also, preaching the Lord Jesus.
Act 11:21 And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number who believed turned to the Lord.
Act 11:22 The report of this came to the ears of the church in Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas to Antioch.
Act 11:23 When he came and saw the grace of God, he was glad, and he exhorted them all to remain faithful to
the Lord with steadfast purpose,
Act 11:24 for he was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a great many people were added to the
Lord.
Act 11:25 So Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul,
Act 11:26 and when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. For a whole year they met with the church
and taught a great many people. And in Antioch the disciples were first called Christians.
Act 11:27 Now in these days prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch.
Act 11:28 And one of them named Agabus stood up and foretold by the Spirit that there would be a great famine
over all the world (this took place in the days of Claudius).
Act 11:29 So the disciples determined, everyone according to his ability, to send relief to the brothers living in
Judea.
Act 11:30 And they did so, sending it to the elders by the hand of Barnabas and Saul.
Act 12:1 About that time Herod the king laid violent hands on some who belonged to the church.
Act 12:2 He killed James the brother of John with the sword,
Act 12:3 and when he saw that it pleased the Jews, he proceeded to arrest Peter also. This was during the days
of Unleavened Bread.
Act 12:4 And when he had seized him, he put him in prison, delivering him over to four squads of soldiers to
guard him, intending after the Passover to bring him out to the people.
Act 12:5 So Peter was kept in prison, but earnest prayer for him was made to God by the church.
Act 12:6 Now when Herod was about to bring him out, on that very night, Peter was sleeping between two
soldiers, bound with two chains, and sentries before the door were guarding the prison.
Act 12:7 And behold, an angel of the Lord stood next to him, and a light shone in the cell. He struck Peter on the
side and woke him, saying, "Get up quickly." And the chains fell off his hands.
Act 12:8 And the angel said to him, "Dress yourself and put on your sandals." And he did so. And he said to
him, "Wrap your cloak around you and follow me."
Act 12:9 And he went out and followed him. He did not know that what was being done by the angel was real,
but thought he was seeing a vision.
Act 12:10 When they had passed the first and the second guard, they came to the iron gate leading into the city.
It opened for them of its own accord, and they went out and went along one street, and immediately the angel
left him.
Act 12:11 When Peter came to himself, he said, "Now I am sure that the Lord has sent his angel and rescued
me from the hand of Herod and from all that the Jewish people were expecting."
Act 12:12 When he realized this, he went to the house of Mary, the mother of John whose other name was
Mark, where many were gathered together and were praying.
Act 12:13 And when he knocked at the door of the gateway, a servant girl named Rhoda came to answer.
Act 12:14 Recognizing Peter's voice, in her joy she did not open the gate but ran in and reported that Peter was
standing at the gate.
Act 12:15 They said to her, "You are out of your mind." But she kept insisting that it was so, and they kept
saying, "It is his angel!"
Act 12:16 But Peter continued knocking, and when they opened, they saw him and were amazed.
Act 12:17 But motioning to them with his hand to be silent, he described to them how the Lord had brought him
out of the prison. And he said, "Tell these things to James and to the brothers." Then he departed and went to
another place.
Act 12:18 Now when day came, there was no little disturbance among the soldiers over what had become of
Peter.
Act 12:19 And after Herod searched for him and did not find him, he examined the sentries and ordered thatthey should be put to death. Then he went down from Judea to Caesarea and spent time there.
Act 12:20 Now Herod was angry with the people of Tyre and Sidon, and they came to him with one accord, and
having persuaded Blastus, the king's chamberlain, they asked for peace, because their country depended on the
king's country for food.
Act 12:21 On an appointed day Herod put on his royal robes, took his seat upon the throne, and delivered an
oration to them.
Act 12:22 And the people were shouting, "The voice of a god, and not of a man!"
Act 12:23 Immediately an angel of the Lord struck him down, because he did not give God the glory, and he
was eaten by worms and breathed his last.
Act 12:24 But the word of God increased and multiplied.
Act 12:25 And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem when they had completed their service, bringing
with them John, whose other name was Mark.
Act 13:1 Now there were in the church at Antioch prophets and teachers, Barnabas, Simeon who was called
Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen a member of the court of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.
Act 13:2 While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, "Set apart for me Barnabas and
Saul for the work to which I have called them."
Act 13:3 Then after fasting and praying they laid their hands on them and sent them off.
Act 13:4 So, being sent out by the Holy Spirit, they went down to Seleucia, and from there they sailed to Cyprus.
Act 13:5 When they arrived at Salamis, they proclaimed the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And
they had John to assist them.
Act 13:6 When they had gone through the whole island as far as Paphos, they came upon a certain magician, a
Jewish false prophet named Bar-Jesus.
Act 13:7 He was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, a man of intelligence, who summoned Barnabas and Saul
and sought to hear the word of God.
Act 13:8 But Elymas the magician (for that is the meaning of his name) opposed them, seeking to turn the
proconsul away from the faith.
Act 13:9 But Saul, who was also called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, looked intently at him
Act 13:10 and said, "You son of the devil, you enemy of all righteousness, full of all deceit and villainy, will you
not stop making crooked the straight paths of the Lord?
Act 13:11 And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you will be blind and unable to see the sun
for a time." Immediately mist and darkness fell upon him, and he went about seeking people to lead him by the
hand.
Act 13:12 Then the proconsul believed, when he saw what had occurred, for he was astonished at the teaching
of the Lord.
Act 13:13 Now Paul and his companions set sail from Paphos and came to Perga in Pamphylia. And John left
them and returned to Jerusalem,
Act 13:14 but they went on from Perga and came to Antioch in Pisidia. And on the Sabbath day they went into
the synagogue and sat down.
Act 13:15 After the reading from the Law and the Prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent a message to
them, saying, "Brothers, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, say it."
Act 13:16 So Paul stood up, and motioning with his hand said: "Men of Israel and you who fear God, listen.
Act 13:17 The God of this people Israel chose our fathers and made the people great during their stay in the
land of Egypt, and with uplifted arm he led them out of it.
Act 13:18 And for about forty years he put up with them in the wilderness.
Act 13:19 And after destroying seven nations in the land of Canaan, he gave them their land as an inheritance.
Act 13:20 All this took about 450 years. And after that he gave them judges until Samuel the prophet.
Act 13:21 Then they asked for a king, and God gave them Saul the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin,
for forty years.
Act 13:22 And when he had removed him, he raised up David to be their king, of whom he testified and said, 'I
have found in David the son of Jesse a man after my heart, who will do all my will.'
Act 13:23 Of this man's offspring God has brought to Israel a Savior, Jesus, as he promised.
Act 13:24 Before his coming, John had proclaimed a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.
Act 13:25 And as John was finishing his course, he said, 'What do you suppose that I am? I am not he. No, but
behold, after me one is coming, the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to untie.'
Act 13:26 "Brothers, sons of the family of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, to us has been sent
the message of this salvation.
Act 13:27 For those who live in Jerusalem and their rulers, because they did not recognize him nor understand
the utterances of the prophets, which are read every Sabbath, fulfilled them by condemning him.
Act 13:28 And though they found in him no guilt worthy of death, they asked Pilate to have him executed.Act 13:29 And when they had carried out all that was written of him, they took him down from the tree and laid
him in a tomb.
Act 13:30 But God raised him from the dead,
Act 13:31 and for many days he appeared to those who had come up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who
are now his witnesses to the people.
Act 13:32 And we bring you the good news that what God promised to the fathers,
Act 13:33 this he has fulfilled to us their children by raising Jesus, as also it is written in the second Psalm, "'
You are my Son, today I have begotten you.'
Act 13:34 And as for the fact that he raised him from the dead, no more to return to corruption, he has spoken in
this way, "' I will give you the holy and sure blessings of David.'
Act 13:35 Therefore he says also in another psalm, "' You will not let your Holy One see corruption.'
Act 13:36 For David, after he had served the purpose of God in his own generation, fell asleep and was laid with
his fathers and saw corruption,
Act 13:37 but he whom God raised up did not see corruption.
Act 13:38 Let it be known to you therefore, brothers, that through this man forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to
you, and by him everyone who believes is freed from everything
Act 13:39 from which you could not be freed by the law of Moses.
Act 13:40 Beware, therefore, lest what is said in the Prophets should come about:
Act 13:41 "'Look, you scoffers, be astounded and perish; for I am doing a work in your days, a work that you will
not believe, even if one tells it to you.'"
Act 13:42 As they went out, the people begged that these things might be told them the next Sabbath.
Act 13:43 And after the meeting of the synagogue broke up, many Jews and devout converts to Judaism
followed Paul and Barnabas, who, as they spoke with them, urged them to continue in the grace of God.
Act 13:44 The next Sabbath almost the whole city gathered to hear the word of the Lord.
Act 13:45 But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy and began to contradict what was
spoken by Paul, reviling him.
Act 13:46 And Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, saying, "It was necessary that the word of God be spoken
first to you. Since you thrust it aside and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, we are turning to the
Gentiles.
Act 13:47 For so the Lord has commanded us, saying, "' I have made you a light for the Gentiles, that you may
bring salvation to the ends of the earth.'"
Act 13:48 And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord, and as
many as were appointed to eternal life believed.
Act 13:49 And the word of the Lord was spreading throughout the whole region.
Act 13:50 But the Jews incited the devout women of high standing and the leading men of the city, stirred up
persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and drove them out of their district.
Act 13:51 But they shook off the dust from their feet against them and went to Iconium.
Act 13:52 And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit.
Act 14:1 Now at Iconium they entered together into the Jewish synagogue and spoke in such a way that a great
number of both Jews and Greeks believed.
Act 14:2 But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles and poisoned their minds against the brothers.
Act 14:3 So they remained for a long time, speaking boldly for the Lord, who bore witness to the word of his
grace, granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands.
Act 14:4 But the people of the city were divided; some sided with the Jews and some with the apostles.
Act 14:5 When an attempt was made by both Gentiles and Jews, with their rulers, to mistreat them and to stone
them,
Act 14:6 they learned of it and fled to Lystra and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia, and to the surrounding country,
Act 14:7 and there they continued to preach the gospel.
Act 14:8 Now at Lystra there was a man sitting who could not use his feet. He was crippled from birth and had
never walked.
Act 14:9 He listened to Paul speaking. And Paul, looking intently at him and seeing that he had faith to be made
well,
Act 14:10 said in a loud voice, "Stand upright on your feet." And he sprang up and began walking.
Act 14:11 And when the crowds saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voices, saying in Lycaonian, "The
gods have come down to us in the likeness of men!"
Act 14:12 Barnabas they called Zeus, and Paul, Hermes, because he was the chief speaker.
Act 14:13 And the priest of Zeus, whose temple was at the entrance to the city, brought oxen and garlands to
the gates and wanted to offer sacrifice with the crowds.
Act 14:14 But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard of it, they tore their garments and rushed out into thecrowd, crying out,
Act 14:15 "Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men, of like nature with you, and we bring you
good news, that you should turn from these vain things to a living God, who made the heaven and the earth and
the sea and all that is in them.
Act 14:16 In past generations he allowed all the nations to walk in their own ways.
Act 14:17 Yet he did not leave himself without witness, for he did good by giving you rains from heaven and
fruitful seasons, satisfying your hearts with food and gladness."
Act 14:18 Even with these words they scarcely restrained the people from offering sacrifice to them.
Act 14:19 But Jews came from Antioch and Iconium, and having persuaded the crowds, they stoned Paul and
dragged him out of the city, supposing that he was dead.
Act 14:20 But when the disciples gathered about him, he rose up and entered the city, and on the next day he
went on with Barnabas to Derbe.
Act 14:21 When they had preached the gospel to that city and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra
and to Iconium and to Antioch,
Act 14:22 strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to continue in the faith, and saying that
through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God.
Act 14:23 And when they had appointed elders for them in every church, with prayer and fasting they committed
them to the Lord in whom they had believed.
Act 14:24 Then they passed through Pisidia and came to Pamphylia.
Act 14:25 And when they had spoken the word in Perga, they went down to Attalia,
Act 14:26 and from there they sailed to Antioch, where they had been commended to the grace of God for the
work that they had fulfilled.
Act 14:27 And when they arrived and gathered the church together, they declared all that God had done with
them, and how he had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles.
Act 14:28 And they remained no little time with the disciples.
Act 15:1 But some men came down from Judea and were teaching the brothers, "Unless you are circumcised
according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved."
Act 15:2 And after Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and debate with them, Paul and Barnabas and
some of the others were appointed to go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and the elders about this question.
Act 15:3 So, being sent on their way by the church, they passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria,
describing in detail the conversion of the Gentiles, and brought great joy to all the brothers.
Act 15:4 When they came to Jerusalem, they were welcomed by the church and the apostles and the elders,
and they declared all that God had done with them.
Act 15:5 But some believers who belonged to the party of the Pharisees rose up and said, "It is necessary to
circumcise them and to order them to keep the law of Moses."
Act 15:6 The apostles and the elders were gathered together to consider this matter.
Act 15:7 And after there had been much debate, Peter stood up and said to them, "Brothers, you know that in
the early days God made a choice among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel
and believe.
Act 15:8 And God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them, by giving them the Holy Spirit just as he did to
us,
Act 15:9 and he made no distinction between us and them, having cleansed their hearts by faith.
Act 15:10 Now, therefore, why are you putting God to the test by placing a yoke on the neck of the disciples that
neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear?
Act 15:11 But we believe that we will be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, just as they will."
Act 15:12 And all the assembly fell silent, and they listened to Barnabas and Paul as they related what signs
and wonders God had done through them among the Gentiles.
Act 15:13 After they finished speaking, James replied, "Brothers, listen to me.
Act 15:14 Simeon has related how God first visited the Gentiles, to take from them a people for his name.
Act 15:15 And with this the words of the prophets agree, just as it is written,
Act 15:16 "'After this I will return, and I will rebuild the tent of David that has fallen; I will rebuild its ruins, and I
will restore it,
Act 15:17 that the remnant of mankind may seek the Lord, and all the Gentiles who are called by my name,
says the Lord, who makes these things
Act 15:18 known from of old.'
Act 15:19 Therefore my judgment is that we should not trouble those of the Gentiles who turn to God,
Act 15:20 but should write to them to abstain from the things polluted by idols, and from sexual immorality, and
from what has been strangled, and from blood.
Act 15:21 For from ancient generations Moses has had in every city those who proclaim him, for he is readevery Sabbath in the synagogues."
Act 15:22 Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders, with the whole church, to choose men from
among them and send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas. They sent Judas called Barsabbas, and Silas,
leading men among the brothers,
Act 15:23 with the following letter: "The brothers, both the apostles and the elders, to the brothers who are of
the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia, greetings.
Act 15:24 Since we have heard that some persons have gone out from us and troubled you with words,
unsettling your minds, although we gave them no instructions,
Act 15:25 it has seemed good to us, having come to one accord, to choose men and send them to you with our
beloved Barnabas and Paul,
Act 15:26 men who have risked their lives for the sake of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Act 15:27 We have therefore sent Judas and Silas, who themselves will tell you the same things by word of
mouth.
Act 15:28 For it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay on you no greater burden than these
requirements:
Act 15:29 that you abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what has been
strangled, and from sexual immorality. If you keep yourselves from these, you will do well. Farewell."
Act 15:30 So when they were sent off, they went down to Antioch, and having gathered the congregation
together, they delivered the letter.
Act 15:31 And when they had read it, they rejoiced because of its encouragement.
Act 15:32 And Judas and Silas, who were themselves prophets, encouraged and strengthened the brothers with
many words.
Act 15:33 And after they had spent some time, they were sent off in peace by the brothers to those who had
sent them.
Act 15:34
Act 15:35 But Paul and Barnabas remained in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, with many
others also.
Act 15:36 And after some days Paul said to Barnabas, "Let us return and visit the brothers in every city where
we proclaimed the word of the Lord, and see how they are."
Act 15:37 Now Barnabas wanted to take with them John called Mark.
Act 15:38 But Paul thought best not to take with them one who had withdrawn from them in Pamphylia and had
not gone with them to the work.
Act 15:39 And there arose a sharp disagreement, so that they separated from each other. Barnabas took Mark
with him and sailed away to Cyprus,
Act 15:40 but Paul chose Silas and departed, having been commended by the brothers to the grace of the Lord.
Act 15:41 And he went through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches.
Act 16:1 Paul came also to Derbe and to Lystra. A disciple was there, named Timothy, the son of a Jewish
woman who was a believer, but his father was a Greek.
Act 16:2 He was well spoken of by the brothers at Lystra and Iconium.
Act 16:3 Paul wanted Timothy to accompany him, and he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews
who were in those places, for they all knew that his father was a Greek.
Act 16:4 As they went on their way through the cities, they delivered to them for observance the decisions that
had been reached by the apostles and elders who were in Jerusalem.
Act 16:5 So the churches were strengthened in the faith, and they increased in numbers daily.
Act 16:6 And they went through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to
speak the word in Asia.
Act 16:7 And when they had come up to Mysia, they attempted to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit of Jesus did not
allow them.
Act 16:8 So, passing by Mysia, they went down to Troas.
Act 16:9 And a vision appeared to Paul in the night: a man of Macedonia was standing there, urging him and
saying, "Come over to Macedonia and help us."
Act 16:10 And when Paul had seen the vision, immediately we sought to go on into Macedonia, concluding that
God had called us to preach the gospel to them.
Act 16:11 So, setting sail from Troas, we made a direct voyage to Samothrace, and the following day to
Neapolis,
Act 16:12 and from there to Philippi, which is a leading city of the district of Macedonia and a Roman colony. We
remained in this city some days.
Act 16:13 And on the Sabbath day we went outside the gate to the riverside, where we supposed there was a
place of prayer, and we sat down and spoke to the women who had come together.Act 16:14 One who heard us was a woman named Lydia, from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple goods, who
was a worshiper of God. The Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul.
Act 16:15 And after she was baptized, and her household as well, she urged us, saying, "If you have judged me
to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay." And she prevailed upon us.
Act 16:16 As we were going to the place of prayer, we were met by a slave girl who had a spirit of divination and
brought her owners much gain by fortune-telling.
Act 16:17 She followed Paul and us, crying out, "These men are servants of the Most High God, who proclaim
to you the way of salvation."
Act 16:18 And this she kept doing for many days. Paul, having become greatly annoyed, turned and said to the
spirit, "I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her." And it came out that very hour.
Act 16:19 But when her owners saw that their hope of gain was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged
them into the marketplace before the rulers.
Act 16:20 And when they had brought them to the magistrates, they said, "These men are Jews, and they are
disturbing our city.
Act 16:21 They advocate customs that are not lawful for us as Romans to accept or practice."
Act 16:22 The crowd joined in attacking them, and the magistrates tore the garments off them and gave orders
to beat them with rods.
Act 16:23 And when they had inflicted many blows upon them, they threw them into prison, ordering the jailer to
keep them safely.
Act 16:24 Having received this order, he put them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in the stocks.
Act 16:25 About midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were
listening to them,
Act 16:26 and suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken. And
immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone's bonds were unfastened.
Act 16:27 When the jailer woke and saw that the prison doors were open, he drew his sword and was about to
kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped.
Act 16:28 But Paul cried with a loud voice, "Do not harm yourself, for we are all here."
Act 16:29 And the jailer called for lights and rushed in, and trembling with fear he fell down before Paul and
Silas.
Act 16:30 Then he brought them out and said, "Sirs, what must I do to be saved?"
Act 16:31 And they said, "Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household."
Act 16:32 And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house.
Act 16:33 And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their wounds; and he was baptized at once,
he and all his family.
Act 16:34 Then he brought them up into his house and set food before them. And he rejoiced along with his
entire household that he had believed in God.
Act 16:35 But when it was day, the magistrates sent the police, saying, "Let those men go."
Act 16:36 And the jailer reported these words to Paul, saying, "The magistrates have sent to let you go.
Therefore come out now and go in peace."
Act 16:37 But Paul said to them, "They have beaten us publicly, uncondemned, men who are Roman citizens,
and have thrown us into prison; and do they now throw us out secretly? No! Let them come themselves and take
us out."
Act 16:38 The police reported these words to the magistrates, and they were afraid when they heard that they
were Roman citizens.
Act 16:39 So they came and apologized to them. And they took them out and asked them to leave the city.
Act 16:40 So they went out of the prison and visited Lydia. And when they had seen the brothers, they
encouraged them and departed.
Act 17:1 Now when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apol lonia, they came to Thessalonica, where
there was a synagogue of the Jews.
Act 17:2 And Paul went in, as was his custom, and on three Sabbath days he reasoned with them from the
Scriptures,
Act 17:3 explaining and proving that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead, and
saying, "This Jesus, whom I proclaim to you, is the Christ."
Act 17:4 And some of them were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas, as did a great many of the devout
Greeks and not a few of the leading women.
Act 17:5 But the Jews were jealous, and taking some wicked men of the rabble, they formed a mob, set the city
in an uproar, and attacked the house of Jason, seeking to bring them out to the crowd.
Act 17:6 And when they could not find them, they dragged Jason and some of the brothers before the city
authorities, shouting, "These men who have turned the world upside down have come here also,Act 17:7 and Jason has received them, and they are all acting against the decrees of Caesar, saying that there
is another king, Jesus."
Act 17:8 And the people and the city authorities were disturbed when they heard these things.
Act 17:9 And when they had taken money as security from Jason and the rest, they let them go.
Act 17:10 The brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea, and when they arrived they
went into the Jewish synagogue.
Act 17:11 Now these Jews were more noble than those in Thessalonica; they received the word with all
eagerness, examining the Scriptures daily to see if these things were so.
Act 17:12 Many of them therefore believed, with not a few Greek women of high standing as well as men.
Act 17:13 But when the Jews from Thessalonica learned that the word of God was proclaimed by Paul at Berea
also, they came there too, agitating and stirring up the crowds.
Act 17:14 Then the brothers immediately sent Paul off on his way to the sea, but Silas and Timothy remained
there.
Act 17:15 Those who conducted Paul brought him as far as Athens, and after receiving a command for Silas
and Timothy to come to him as soon as possible, they departed.
Act 17:16 Now while Paul was waiting for them at Athens, his spirit was provoked within him as he saw that the
city was full of idols.
Act 17:17 So he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and the devout persons, and in the marketplace
every day with those who happened to be there.
Act 17:18 Some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers also conversed with him. And some said, "What does
this babbler wish to say?" Others said, "He seems to be a preacher of foreign divinities"- because he was
preaching Jesus and the resurrection.
Act 17:19 And they took hold of him and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, "May we know what this new
teaching is that you are presenting?
Act 17:20 For you bring some strange things to our ears. We wish to know therefore what these things mean."
Act 17:21 Now all the Athenians and the foreigners who lived there would spend their time in nothing except
telling or hearing something new.
Act 17:22 So Paul, standing in the midst of the Areopagus, said: "Men of Athens, I perceive that in every way
you are very religious.
Act 17:23 For as I passed along and observed the objects of your worship, I found also an altar with this
inscription, 'To the unknown god.' What therefore you worship as unknown, this I proclaim to you.
Act 17:24 The God who made the world and everything in it, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not live in
temples made by man,
Act 17:25 nor is he served by human hands, as though he needed anything, since he himself gives to all
mankind life and breath and everything.
Act 17:26 And he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having
determined allotted periods and the boundaries of their dwelling place,
Act 17:27 that they should seek God, in the hope that they might feel their way toward him and find him. Yet he
is actually not far from each one of us,
Act 17:28 for "'In him we live and move and have our being'; as even some of your own poets have said, "' For
we are indeed his offspring.'
Act 17:29 Being then God's offspring, we ought not to think that the divine being is like gold or silver or stone, an
image formed by the art and imagination of man.
Act 17:30 The times of ignorance God overlooked, but now he commands all people everywhere to repent,
Act 17:31 because he has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has
appointed; and of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead."
Act 17:32 Now when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked. But others said, "We will hear
you again about this."
Act 17:33 So Paul went out from their midst.
Act 17:34 But some men joined him and believed, among them Dionysius the Areopagite and a woman named
Damaris and others with them.
Act 18:1 After this Paul left Athens and went to Corinth.
Act 18:2 And he found a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla,
because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to leave Rome. And he went to see them,
Act 18:3 and because he was of the same trade he stayed with them and worked, for they were tentmakers by
trade.
Act 18:4 And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath, and tried to persuade Jews and Greeks.
Act 18:5 When Silas and Timothy arrived from Macedonia, Paul was occupied with the word, testifying to the
Jews that the Christ was Jesus.Act 18:6 And when they opposed and reviled him, he shook out his garments and said to them, "Your blood be
on your own heads! I am innocent. From now on I will go to the Gentiles."
Act 18:7 And he left there and went to the house of a man named Titius Justus, a worshiper of God. His house
was next door to the synagogue.
Act 18:8 Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, together with his entire household. And many
of the Corinthians hearing Paul believed and were baptized.
Act 18:9 And the Lord said to Paul one night in a vision, "Do not be afraid, but go on speaking and do not be
silent,
Act 18:10 for I am with you, and no one will attack you to harm you, for I have many in this city who are my
people."
Act 18:11 And he stayed a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
Act 18:12 But when Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews made a united attack on Paul and brought him
before the tribunal,
Act 18:13 saying, "This man is persuading people to worship God contrary to the law."
Act 18:14 But when Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, "If it were a matter of
wrongdoing or vicious crime, O Jews, I would have reason to accept your complaint.
Act 18:15 But since it is a matter of questions about words and names and your own law, see to it yourselves. I
refuse to be a judge of these things."
Act 18:16 And he drove them from the tribunal.
Act 18:17 And they all seized Sosthenes, the ruler of the synagogue, and beat him in front of the tribunal. But
Gallio paid no attention to any of this.
Act 18:18 After this, Paul stayed many days longer and then took leave of the brothers and set sail for Syria,
and with him Priscilla and Aquila. At Cenchreae he had cut his hair, for he was under a vow.
Act 18:19 And they came to Ephesus, and he left them there, but he himself went into the synagogue and
reasoned with the Jews.
Act 18:20 When they asked him to stay for a longer period, he declined.
Act 18:21 But on taking leave of them he said, "I will return to you if God wills," and he set sail from Ephesus.
Act 18:22 When he had landed at Caesarea, he went up and greeted the church, and then went down to
Antioch.
Act 18:23 After spending some time there, he departed and went from one place to the next through the region
of Galatia and Phrygia, strengthening all the disciples.
Act 18:24 Now a Jew named Apollos, a native of Alexandria, came to Ephesus. He was an eloquent man,
competent in the Scriptures.
Act 18:25 He had been instructed in the way of the Lord. And being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught
accurately the things concerning Jesus, though he knew only the baptism of John.
Act 18:26 He began to speak boldly in the synagogue, but when Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him
and explained to him the way of God more accurately.
Act 18:27 And when he wished to cross to Achaia, the brothers encouraged him and wrote to the disciples to
welcome him. When he arrived, he greatly helped those who through grace had believed,
Act 18:28 for he powerfully refuted the Jews in public, showing by the Scriptures that the Christ was Jesus.
Act 19:1 And it happened that while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul passed through the inland country and came
to Ephesus. There he found some disciples.
Act 19:2 And he said to them, "Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?" And they said, "No, we have
not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit."
Act 19:3 And he said, "Into what then were you baptized?" They said, "Into John's baptism."
Act 19:4 And Paul said, "John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one
who was to come after him, that is, Jesus."
Act 19:5 On hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
Act 19:6 And when Paul had laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they began speaking in
tongues and prophesying.
Act 19:7 There were about twelve men in all.
Act 19:8 And he entered the synagogue and for three months spoke boldly, reasoning and persuading them
about the kingdom of God.
Act 19:9 But when some became stubborn and continued in unbelief, speaking evil of the Way before the
congregation, he withdrew from them and took the disciples with him, reasoning daily in the hall of Tyrannus.
Act 19:10 This continued for two years, so that all the residents of Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews
and Greeks.
Act 19:11 And God was doing extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul,
Act 19:12 so that even handkerchiefs or aprons that had touched his skin were carried away to the sick, andtheir diseases left them and the evil spirits came out of them.
Act 19:13 Then some of the itinerant Jewish exorcists undertook to invoke the name of the Lord Jesus over
those who had evil spirits, saying, "I adjure you by the Jesus, whom Paul proclaims."
Act 19:14 Seven sons of a Jewish high priest named Sceva were doing this.
Act 19:15 But the evil spirit answered them, "Jesus I know, and Paul I recognize, but who are you?"
Act 19:16 And the man in whom was the evil spirit leaped on them, mastered all of them and overpowered
them, so that they fled out of that house naked and wounded.
Act 19:17 And this became known to all the residents of Ephesus, both Jews and Greeks. And fear fell upon
them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was extolled.
Act 19:18 Also many of those who were now believers came, confessing and divulging their practices.
Act 19:19 And a number of those who had practiced magic arts brought their books together and burned them in
the sight of all. And they counted the value of them and found it came to fifty thousand pieces of silver.
Act 19:20 So the word of the Lord continued to increase and prevail mightily.
Act 19:21 Now after these events Paul resolved in the Spirit to pass through Macedonia and Achaia and go to
Jerusalem, saying, "After I have been there, I must also see Rome."
Act 19:22 And having sent into Macedonia two of his helpers, Timothy and Erastus, he himself stayed in Asia for
a while.
Act 19:23 About that time there arose no little disturbance concerning the Way.
Act 19:24 For a man named Demetrius, a silversmith, who made silver shrines of Artemis, brought no little
business to the craftsmen.
Act 19:25 These he gathered together, with the workmen in similar trades, and said, "Men, you know that from
this business we have our wealth.
Act 19:26 And you see and hear that not only in Ephesus but in almost all of Asia this Paul has persuaded and
turned away a great many people, saying that gods made with hands are not gods.
Act 19:27 And there is danger not only that this trade of ours may come into disrepute but also that the temple
of the great goddess Artemis may be counted as nothing, and that she may even be deposed from her
magnificence, she whom all Asia and the world worship."
Act 19:28 When they heard this they were enraged and were crying out, "Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!"
Act 19:29 So the city was filled with the confusion, and they rushed together into the theater, dragging with them
Gaius and Aristarchus, Macedonians who were Paul's companions in travel.
Act 19:30 But when Paul wished to go in among the crowd, the disciples would not let him.
Act 19:31 And even some of the Asiarchs, who were friends of his, sent to him and were urging him not to
venture into the theater.
Act 19:32 Now some cried out one thing, some another, for the assembly was in confusion, and most of them
did not know why they had come together.
Act 19:33 Some of the crowd prompted Alexander, whom the Jews had put forward. And Alexander, motioning
with his hand, wanted to make a defense to the crowd.
Act 19:34 But when they recognized that he was a Jew, for about two hours they all cried out with one voice,
"Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!"
Act 19:35 And when the town clerk had quieted the crowd, he said, "Men of Ephesus, who is there who does
not know that the city of the Ephesians is temple keeper of the great Artemis, and of the sacred stone that fell
from the sky?
Act 19:36 Seeing then that these things cannot be denied, you ought to be quiet and do nothing rash.
Act 19:37 For you have brought these men here who are neither sacrilegious nor blasphemers of our goddess.
Act 19:38 If therefore Demetrius and the craftsmen with him have a complaint against anyone, the courts are
open, and there are proconsuls. Let them bring charges against one another.
Act 19:39 But if you seek anything further, it shall be settled in the regular assembly.
Act 19:40 For we really are in danger of being charged with rioting today, since there is no cause that we can
give to justify this commotion."
Act 19:41 And when he had said these things, he dismissed the assembly.
Act 20:1 After the uproar ceased, Paul sent for the disciples, and after encouraging them, he said farewell and
departed for Macedonia.
Act 20:2 When he had gone through those regions and had given them much encouragement, he came to
Greece.
Act 20:3 There he spent three months, and when a plot was made against him by the Jews as he was about to
set sail for Syria, he decided to return through Macedonia.
Act 20:4 Sopater of Berea, the son of Pyrrhus from Berea, accompanied him; and of the Thessalonians,
Aristarchus and Secundus; and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy; and the Asians, Tychicus and Trophimus.
Act 20:5 These went on ahead and were waiting for us at Troas,Act 20:6 but we sailed away from Philippi after the days of Unleavened Bread, and in five days we came to them
at Troas, where we stayed for seven days.
Act 20:7 On the first day of the week, when we were gathered together to break bread, Paul talked with them,
intending to depart on the next day, and he prolonged his speech until midnight.
Act 20:8 There were many lamps in the upper room where we were gathered.
Act 20:9 And a young man named Eutychus, sitting at the window, sank into a deep sleep as Paul talked still
longer. And being overcome by sleep, he fell down from the third story and was taken up dead.
Act 20:10 But Paul went down and bent over him, and taking him in his arms, said, "Do not be alarmed, for his
life is in him."
Act 20:11 And when Paul had gone up and had broken bread and eaten, he conversed with them a long while,
until daybreak, and so departed.
Act 20:12 And they took the youth away alive, and were not a little comforted.
Act 20:13 But going ahead to the ship, we set sail for Assos, intending to take Paul aboard there, for so he had
arranged, intending himself to go by land.
Act 20:14 And when he met us at Assos, we took him on board and went to Mitylene.
Act 20:15 And sailing from there we came the following day opposite Chios; the next day we touched at Samos;
and the day after that we went to Miletus.
Act 20:16 For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus, so that he might not have to spend time in Asia, for he
was hastening to be at Jerusalem, if possible, on the day of Pentecost.
Act 20:17 Now from Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church to come to him.
Act 20:18 And when they came to him, he said to them: "You yourselves know how I lived among you the whole
time from the first day that I set foot in Asia,
Act 20:19 serving the Lord with all humility and with tears and with trials that happened to me through the plots
of the Jews;
Act 20:20 how I did not shrink from declaring to you anything that was profitable, and teaching you in public and
from house to house,
Act 20:21 testifying both to Jews and to Greeks of repentance toward God and of faith in our Lord Jesus Christ.
Act 20:22 And now, behold, I am going to Jerusalem, constrained by the Spirit, not knowing what will happen to
me there,
Act 20:23 except that the Holy Spirit testifies to me in every city that imprisonment and afflictions await me.
Act 20:24 But I do not account my life of any value nor as precious to myself, if only I may finish my course and
the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify to the gospel of the grace of God.
Act 20:25 And now, behold, I know that none of you among whom I have gone about proclaiming the kingdom
will see my face again.
Act 20:26 Therefore I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all of you,
Act 20:27 for I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of God.
Act 20:28 Pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit has made you
overseers, to care for the church of God, which he obtained with his own blood.
Act 20:29 I know that after my departure fierce wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock;
Act 20:30 and from among your own selves will arise men speaking twisted things, to draw away the disciples
after them.
Act 20:31 Therefore be alert, remembering that for three years I did not cease night or day to admonish
everyone with tears.
Act 20:32 And now I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to
give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.
Act 20:33 I coveted no one's silver or gold or apparel.
Act 20:34 You yourselves know that these hands ministered to my necessities and to those who were with me.
Act 20:35 In all things I have shown you that by working hard in this way we must help the weak and remember
the words of the Lord Jesus, how he himself said, 'It is more blessed to give than to receive.'"
Act 20:36 And when he had said these things, he knelt down and prayed with them all.
Act 20:37 And there was much weeping on the part of all; they embraced Paul and kissed him,
Act 20:38 being sorrowful most of all because of the word he had spoken, that they would not see his face
again. And they accompanied him to the ship.
Act 21:1 And when we had parted from them and set sail, we came by a straight course to Cos, and the next
day to Rhodes, and from there to Patara.
Act 21:2 And having found a ship crossing to Phoenicia, we went aboard and set sail.
Act 21:3 When we had come in sight of Cyprus, leaving it on the left we sailed to Syria and landed at Tyre, for
there the ship was to unload its cargo.
Act 21:4 And having sought out the disciples, we stayed there for seven days. And through the Spirit they weretelling Paul not to go on to Jerusalem.
Act 21:5 When our days there were ended, we departed and went on our journey, and they all, with wives and
children, accompanied us until we were outside the city. And kneeling down on the beach, we prayed
Act 21:6 and said farewell to one another. Then we went on board the ship, and they returned home.
Act 21:7 When we had finished the voyage from Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais, and we greeted the brothers and
stayed with them for one day.
Act 21:8 On the next day we departed and came to Caesarea, and we entered the house of Philip the
evangelist, who was one of the seven, and stayed with him.
Act 21:9 He had four unmarried daughters, who prophesied.
Act 21:10 While we were staying for many days, a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea.
Act 21:11 And coming to us, he took Paul's belt and bound his own feet and hands and said, "Thus says the
Holy Spirit, 'This is how the Jews at Jerusalem will bind the man who owns this belt and deliver him into the
hands of the Gentiles.'"
Act 21:12 When we heard this, we and the people there urged him not to go up to Jerusalem.
Act 21:13 Then Paul answered, "What are you doing, weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only
to be imprisoned but even to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus."
Act 21:14 And since he would not be persuaded, we ceased and said, "Let the will of the Lord be done."
Act 21:15 After these days we got ready and went up to Jerusalem.
Act 21:16 And some of the disciples from Caesarea went with us, bringing us to the house of Mnason of Cyprus,
an early disciple, with whom we should lodge.
Act 21:17 When we had come to Jerusalem, the brothers received us gladly.
Act 21:18 On the following day Paul went in with us to James, and all the elders were present.
Act 21:19 After greeting them, he related one by one the things that God had done among the Gentiles through
his ministry.
Act 21:20 And when they heard it, they glorified God. And they said to him, "You see, brother, how many
thousands there are among the Jews of those who have believed. They are all zealous for the law,
Act 21:21 and they have been told about you that you teach all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to forsake
Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children or walk according to our customs.
Act 21:22 What then is to be done? They will certainly hear that you have come.
Act 21:23 Do therefore what we tell you. We have four men who are under a vow;
Act 21:24 take these men and purify yourself along with them and pay their expenses, so that they may shave
their heads. Thus all will know that there is nothing in what they have been told about you, but that you yourself
also live in observance of the law.
Act 21:25 But as for the Gentiles who have believed, we have sent a letter with our judgment that they should
abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what has been strangled, and from
sexual immorality."
Act 21:26 Then Paul took the men, and the next day he purified himself along with them and went into the
temple, giving notice when the days of purification would be fulfilled and the offering presented for each one of
them.
Act 21:27 When the seven days were almost completed, the Jews from Asia, seeing him in the temple, stirred
up the whole crowd and laid hands on him,
Act 21:28 crying out, "Men of Israel, help! This is the man who is teaching everyone everywhere against the
people and the law and this place. Moreover, he even brought Greeks into the temple and has defiled this holy
place."
Act 21:29 For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian with him in the city, and they supposed that
Paul had brought him into the temple.
Act 21:30 Then all the city was stirred up, and the people ran together. They seized Paul and dragged him out
of the temple, and at once the gates were shut.
Act 21:31 And as they were seeking to kill him, word came to the tribune of the cohort that all Jerusalem was in
confusion.
Act 21:32 He at once took soldiers and centurions and ran down to them. And when they saw the tribune and
the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul.
Act 21:33 Then the tribune came up and arrested him and ordered him to be bound with two chains. He inquired
who he was and what he had done.
Act 21:34 Some in the crowd were shouting one thing, some another. And as he could not learn the facts
because of the uproar, he ordered him to be brought into the barracks.
Act 21:35 And when he came to the steps, he was actually carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the
crowd,
Act 21:36 for the mob of the people followed, crying out, "Away with him!"Act 21:37 As Paul was about to be brought into the barracks, he said to the tribune, "May I say something to
you?" And he said, "Do you know Greek?
Act 21:38 Are you not the Egyptian, then, who recently stirred up a revolt and led the four thousand men of the
Assassins out into the wilderness?"
Act 21:39 Paul replied, "I am a Jew, from Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of no obscure city. I beg you, permit me to
speak to the people."
Act 21:40 And when he had given him permission, Paul, standing on the steps, motioned with his hand to the
people. And when there was a great hush, he addressed them in the Hebrew language, saying:
Act 22:1 "Brothers and fathers, hear the defense that I now make before you."
Act 22:2 And when they heard that he was addressing them in the Hebrew language, they became even more
quiet. And he said:
Act 22:3 "I am a Jew, born in Tarsus in Cilicia, but brought up in this city, educated at the feet of Gamaliel
according to the strict manner of the law of our fathers, being zealous for God as all of you are this day.
Act 22:4 I persecuted this Way to the death, binding and delivering to prison both men and women,
Act 22:5 as the high priest and the whole council of elders can bear me witness. From them I received letters to
the brothers, and I journeyed toward Damascus to take those also who were there and bring them in bonds to
Jerusalem to be punished.
Act 22:6 "As I was on my way and drew near to Damascus, about noon a great light from heaven suddenly
shone around me.
Act 22:7 And I fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to me, 'Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?'
Act 22:8 And I answered, 'Who are you, Lord?' And he said to me, 'I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you are
persecuting.'
Act 22:9 Now those who were with me saw the light but did not understand the voice of the one who was
speaking to me.
Act 22:10 And I said, 'What shall I do, Lord?' And the Lord said to me, 'Rise, and go into Damascus, and there
you will be told all that is appointed for you to do.'
Act 22:11 And since I could not see because of the brightness of that light, I was led by the hand by those who
were with me, and came into Damascus.
Act 22:12 "And one Ananias, a devout man according to the law, well spoken of by all the Jews who lived there,
Act 22:13 came to me, and standing by me said to me, 'Brother Saul, receive your sight.' And at that very hour I
received my sight and saw him.
Act 22:14 And he said, 'The God of our fathers appointed you to know his will, to see the Righteous One and to
hear a voice from his mouth;
Act 22:15 for you will be a witness for him to everyone of what you have seen and heard.
Act 22:16 And now why do you wait? Rise and be baptized and wash away your sins, calling on his name.'
Act 22:17 "When I had returned to Jerusalem and was praying in the temple, I fell into a trance
Act 22:18 and saw him saying to me, 'Make haste and get out of Jerusalem quickly, because they will not
accept your testimony about me.'
Act 22:19 And I said, 'Lord, they themselves know that in one synagogue after another I imprisoned and beat
those who believed in you.
Act 22:20 And when the blood of Stephen your witness was being shed, I myself was standing by and approving
and watching over the garments of those who killed him.'
Act 22:21 And he said to me, 'Go, for I will send you far away to the Gentiles.'"
Act 22:22 Up to this word they listened to him. Then they raised their voices and said, "Away with such a fellow
from the earth! For he should not be allowed to live."
Act 22:23 And as they were shouting and throwing off their cloaks and flinging dust into the air,
Act 22:24 the tri-bune ordered him to be brought into the barracks, saying that he should be examined by
flogging, to find out why they were shouting against him like this.
Act 22:25 But when they had stretched him out for the whips, Paul said to the centurion who was standing by,
"Is it lawful for you to flog a man who is a Roman citizen and uncondemned?"
Act 22:26 When the centurion heard this, he went to the tribune and said to him, "What are you about to do? For
this man is a Roman citizen."
Act 22:27 So the tribune came and said to him, "Tell me, are you a Roman citizen?" And he said, "Yes."
Act 22:28 The tribune answered, "I bought this citizenship for a large sum." Paul said, "But I am a citizen by
birth."
Act 22:29 So those who were about to examine him withdrew from him immediately, and the tribune also was
afraid, for he realized that Paul was a Roman citizen and that he had bound him.
Act 22:30 But on the next day, desiring to know the real reason why he was being accused by the Jews, he
unbound him and commanded the chief priests and all the council to meet, and he brought Paul down and sethim before them.
Act 23:1 And looking intently at the council, Paul said, "Brothers, I have lived my life before God in all good
conscience up to this day."
Act 23:2 And the high priest Ananias commanded those who stood by him to strike him on the mouth.
Act 23:3 Then Paul said to him, "God is going to strike you, you whitewashed wall! Are you sitting to judge me
according to the law, and yet contrary to the law you order me to be struck?"
Act 23:4 Those who stood by said, "Would you revile God's high priest?"
Act 23:5 And Paul said, "I did not know, brothers, that he was the high priest, for it is written, 'You shall not
speak evil of a ruler of your people.'"
Act 23:6 Now when Paul perceived that one part were Sadducees and the other Pharisees, he cried out in the
council, "Brothers, I am a Pharisee, a son of Pharisees. It is with respect to the hope and the resurrection of the
dead that I am on trial."
Act 23:7 And when he had said this, a dissension arose between the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and the
assembly was divided.
Act 23:8 For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, nor angel, nor spirit, but the Pharisees
acknowledge them all.
Act 23:9 Then a great clamor arose, and some of the scribes of the Pharisees' party stood up and contended
sharply, "We find nothing wrong in this man. What if a spirit or an angel spoke to him?"
Act 23:10 And when the dissension became violent, the tribune, afraid that Paul would be torn to pieces by
them, commanded the soldiers to go down and take him away from among them by force and bring him into the
barracks.
Act 23:11 The following night the Lord stood by him and said, "Take courage, for as you have testified to the
facts about me in Jerusalem, so you must testify also in Rome."
Act 23:12 When it was day, the Jews made a plot and bound themselves by an oath neither to eat nor drink till
they had killed Paul.
Act 23:13 There were more than forty who made this conspiracy.
Act 23:14 They went to the chief priests and elders and said, "We have strictly bound ourselves by an oath to
taste no food till we have killed Paul.
Act 23:15 Now therefore you, along with the council, give notice to the tribune to bring him down to you, as
though you were going to determine his case more exactly. And we are ready to kill him before he comes near."
Act 23:16 Now the son of Paul's sister heard of their ambush, so he went and entered the barracks and told
Paul.
Act 23:17 Paul called one of the centurions and said, "Take this young man to the tribune, for he has something
to tell him."
Act 23:18 So he took him and brought him to the tribune and said, "Paul the prisoner called me and asked me to
bring this young man to you, as he has something to say to you."
Act 23:19 The tribune took him by the hand, and going aside asked him privately, "What is it that you have to tell
me?"
Act 23:20 And he said, "The Jews have agreed to ask you to bring Paul down to the council tomorrow, as
though they were going to inquire somewhat more closely about him.
Act 23:21 But do not be persuaded by them, for more than forty of their men are lying in ambush for him, who
have bound themselves by an oath neither to eat nor drink till they have killed him. And now they are ready,
waiting for your consent."
Act 23:22 So the tribune dismissed the young man, charging him, "Tell no one that you have informed me of
these things."
Act 23:23 Then he called two of the centurions and said, "Get ready two hundred soldiers, with seventy
horsemen and two hundred spearmen to go as far as Caesarea at the third hour of the night.
Act 23:24 Also provide mounts for Paul to ride and bring him safely to Felix the governor."
Act 23:25 And he wrote a letter to this effect:
Act 23:26 "Claudius Lysias, to his Excellency the governor Felix, greetings.
Act 23:27 This man was seized by the Jews and was about to be killed by them when I came upon them with
the soldiers and rescued him, having learned that he was a Roman citizen.
Act 23:28 And desiring to know the charge for which they were accusing him, I brought him down to their
council.
Act 23:29 I found that he was being accused about questions of their law, but charged with nothing deserving
death or imprisonment.
Act 23:30 And when it was disclosed to me that there would be a plot against the man, I sent him to you at
once, ordering his accusers also to state before you what they have against him."
Act 23:31 So the soldiers, according to their instructions, took Paul and brought him by night to Antipatris.Act 23:32 And on the next day they returned to the barracks, letting the horsemen go on with him.
Act 23:33 When they had come to Caesarea and delivered the letter to the governor, they presented Paul also
before him.
Act 23:34 On reading the letter, he asked what province he was from. And when he learned that he was from
Cilicia,
Act 23:35 he said, "I will give you a hearing when your accusers arrive." And he commanded him to be guarded
in Herod's praetorium.
Act 24:1 And after five days the high priest Ananias came down with some elders and a spokesman, one
Tertullus. They laid before the governor their case against Paul.
Act 24:2 And when he had been summoned, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying: "Since through you we
enjoy much peace, and since by your foresight, most excellent Felix, reforms are being made for this nation,
Act 24:3 in every way and everywhere we accept this with all gratitude.
Act 24:4 But, to detain you no further, I beg you in your kindness to hear us briefly.
Act 24:5 For we have found this man a plague, one who stirs up riots among all the Jews throughout the world
and is a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes.
Act 24:6 He even tried to profane the temple, but we seized him.
Act 24:7
Act 24:8 By examining him yourself you will be able to find out from him about everything of which we accuse
him."
Act 24:9 The Jews also joined in the charge, affirming that all these things were so.
Act 24:10 And when the governor had nodded to him to speak, Paul replied: "Knowing that for many years you
have been a judge over this nation, I cheerfully make my defense.
Act 24:11 You can verify that it is not more than twelve days since I went up to worship in Jerusalem,
Act 24:12 and they did not find me disputing with anyone or stirring up a crowd, either in the temple or in the
synagogues or in the city.
Act 24:13 Neither can they prove to you what they now bring up against me.
Act 24:14 But this I confess to you, that according to the Way, which they call a sect, I worship the God of our
fathers, believing everything laid down by the Law and written in the Prophets,
Act 24:15 having a hope in God, which these men themselves accept, that there will be a resurrection of both
the just and the unjust.
Act 24:16 So I always take pains to have a clear conscience toward both God and man.
Act 24:17 Now after several years I came to bring alms to my nation and to present offerings.
Act 24:18 While I was doing this, they found me purified in the temple, without any crowd or tumult. But some
Jews from AsiaAct 24:19 they ought to be here before you and to make an accusation, should they have anything against me.
Act 24:20 Or else let these men themselves say what wrongdoing they found when I stood before the council,
Act 24:21 other than this one thing that I cried out while standing among them: 'It is with respect to the
resurrection of the dead that I am on trial before you this day.'"
Act 24:22 But Felix, having a rather accurate knowledge of the Way, put them off, saying, "When Lysias the
tribune comes down, I will decide your case."
Act 24:23 Then he gave orders to the centurion that he should be kept in custody but have some liberty, and
that none of his friends should be prevented from attending to his needs.
Act 24:24 After some days Felix came with his wife Drusilla, who was Jewish, and he sent for Paul and heard
him speak about faith in Christ Jesus.
Act 24:25 And as he reasoned about righteousness and self-control and the coming judgment, Felix was
alarmed and said, "Go away for the present. When I get an opportunity I will summon you."
Act 24:26 At the same time he hoped that money would be given him by Paul. So he sent for him often and
conversed with him.
Act 24:27 When two years had elapsed, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus. And desiring to do the Jews a
favor, Felix left Paul in prison.
Act 25:1 Now three days after Festus had arrived in the province, he went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea.
Act 25:2 And the chief priests and the principal men of the Jews laid out their case against Paul, and they urged
him,
Act 25:3 asking as a favor against Paul that he summon him to Jerusalem- because they were planning an
ambush to kill him on the way.
Act 25:4 Festus replied that Paul was being kept at Caesarea and that he himself intended to go there shortly.
Act 25:5 "So," said he, "let the men of authority among you go down with me, and if there is anything wrong
about the man, let them bring charges against him."
Act 25:6 After he stayed among them not more than eight or ten days, he went down to Caesarea. And the nextday he took his seat on the tribunal and ordered Paul to be brought.
Act 25:7 When he had arrived, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem stood around him, bringing many
and serious charges against him that they could not prove.
Act 25:8 Paul argued in his defense, "Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against
Caesar have I committed any offense."
Act 25:9 But Festus, wishing to do the Jews a favor, said to Paul, "Do you wish to go up to Jerusalem and there
be tried on these charges before me?"
Act 25:10 But Paul said, "I am standing before Caesar's tribunal, where I ought to be tried. To the Jews I have
done no wrong, as you yourselves know very well.
Act 25:11 If then I am a wrongdoer and have committed anything for which I deserve to die, I do not seek to
escape death. But if there is nothing to their charges against me, no one can give me up to them. I appeal to
Caesar."
Act 25:12 Then Festus, when he had conferred with his council, answered, "To Caesar you have appealed; to
Caesar you shall go."
Act 25:13 Now when some days had passed, Agrippa the king and Bernice arrived at Caesarea and greeted
Festus.
Act 25:14 And as they stayed there many days, Festus laid Paul's case before the king, saying, "There is a man
left prisoner by Felix,
Act 25:15 and when I was at Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews laid out their case against
him, asking for a sentence of condemnation against him.
Act 25:16 I answered them that it was not the custom of the Romans to give up anyone before the accused met
the accusers face to face and had opportunity to make his defense concerning the charge laid against him.
Act 25:17 So when they came together here, I made no delay, but on the next day took my seat on the tribunal
and ordered the man to be brought.
Act 25:18 When the accusers stood up, they brought no charge in his case of such evils as I supposed.
Act 25:19 Rather they had certain points of dispute with him about their own religion and about a certain Jesus,
who was dead, but whom Paul asserted to be alive.
Act 25:20 Being at a loss how to investigate these questions, I asked whether he wanted to go to Jerusalem and
be tried there regarding them.
Act 25:21 But when Paul had appealed to be kept in custody for the decision of the emperor, I ordered him to be
held until I could send him to Caesar."
Act 25:22 Then Agrippa said to Festus, "I would like to hear the man myself." "Tomorrow," said he, "you will
hear him."
Act 25:23 So on the next day Agrippa and Bernice came with great pomp, and they entered the audience hall
with the military tribunes and the prominent men of the city. Then, at the command of Festus, Paul was brought
in.
Act 25:24 And Festus said, "King Agrippa and all who are present with us, you see this man about whom the
whole Jewish people petitioned me, both in Jerusalem and here, shouting that he ought not to live any longer.
Act 25:25 But I found that he had done nothing deserving death. And as he himself appealed to the emperor, I
decided to go ahead and send him.
Act 25:26 But I have nothing definite to write to my lord about him. Therefore I have brought him before you all,
and especially before you, King Agrippa, so that, after we have examined him, I may have something to write.
Act 25:27 For it seems to me unreasonable, in sending a prisoner, not to indicate the charges against him."
Act 26:1 So Agrippa said to Paul, "You have permission to speak for yourself." Then Paul stretched out his hand
and made his defense:
Act 26:2 "I consider myself fortunate that it is before you, King Agrippa, I am going to make my defense today
against all the accusations of the Jews,
Act 26:3 especially because you are familiar with all the customs and controversies of the Jews. Therefore I beg
you to listen to me patiently.
Act 26:4 "My manner of life from my youth, spent from the beginning among my own nation and in Jerusalem, is
known by all the Jews.
Act 26:5 They have known for a long time, if they are willing to testify, that according to the strictest party of our
religion I have lived as a Pharisee.
Act 26:6 And now I stand here on trial because of my hope in the promise made by God to our fathers,
Act 26:7 to which our twelve tribes hope to attain, as they earnestly worship night and day. And for this hope I
am accused by Jews, O king!
Act 26:8 Why is it thought incredible by any of you that God raises the dead?
Act 26:9 "I myself was convinced that I ought to do many things in opposing the name of Jesus of Nazareth.
Act 26:10 And I did so in Jerusalem. I not only locked up many of the saints in prison after receiving authorityfrom the chief priests, but when they were put to death I cast my vote against them.
Act 26:11 And I punished them often in all the synagogues and tried to make them blaspheme, and in raging
fury against them I persecuted them even to foreign cities.
Act 26:12 "In this connection I journeyed to Damascus with the authority and commission of the chief priests.
Act 26:13 At midday, O king, I saw on the way a light from heaven, brighter than the sun, that shone around me
and those who journeyed with me.
Act 26:14 And when we had all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language, 'Saul,
Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads.'
Act 26:15 And I said, 'Who are you, Lord?' And the Lord said, 'I am Jesus whom you are persecuting.
Act 26:16 But rise and stand upon your feet, for I have appeared to you for this purpose, to appoint you as a
servant and witness to the things in which you have seen me and to those in which I will appear to you,
Act 26:17 delivering you from your people and from the Gentiles- to whom I am sending you
Act 26:18 to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God,
that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me.'
Act 26:19 "Therefore, O King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision,
Act 26:20 but declared first to those in Damascus, then in Jerusalem and throughout all the region of Judea, and
also to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, performing deeds in keeping with their repentance.
Act 26:21 For this reason the Jews seized me in the temple and tried to kill me.
Act 26:22 To this day I have had the help that comes from God, and so I stand here testifying both to small and
great, saying nothing but what the prophets and Moses said would come to pass:
Act 26:23 that the Christ must suffer and that, by being the first to rise from the dead, he would proclaim light
both to our people and to the Gentiles."
Act 26:24 And as he was saying these things in his defense, Festus said with a loud voice, "Paul, you are out of
your mind; your great learning is driving you out of your mind."
Act 26:25 But Paul said, "I am not out of my mind, most excellent Festus, but I am speaking true and rational
words.
Act 26:26 For the king knows about these things, and to him I speak boldly. For I am persuaded that none of
these things has escaped his notice, for this has not been done in a corner.
Act 26:27 King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you believe."
Act 26:28 And Agrippa said to Paul, "In a short time would you persuade me to be a Christian?"
Act 26:29 And Paul said, "Whether short or long, I would to God that not only you but also all who hear me this
day might become such as I am- except for these chains."
Act 26:30 Then the king rose, and the governor and Bernice and those who were sitting with them.
Act 26:31 And when they had withdrawn, they said to one another, "This man is doing nothing to deserve death
or imprisonment."
Act 26:32 And Agrippa said to Festus, "This man could have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar."
Act 27:1 And when it was decided that we should sail for Italy, they delivered Paul and some other prisoners to
a centurion of the Augustan Cohort named Julius.
Act 27:2 And embarking in a ship of Adramyttium, which was about to sail to the ports along the coast of Asia,
we put to sea, accompanied by Aristarchus, a Macedonian from Thessalonica.
Act 27:3 The next day we put in at Sidon. And Julius treated Paul kindly and gave him leave to go to his friends
and be cared for.
Act 27:4 And putting out to sea from there we sailed under the lee of Cyprus, because the winds were against
us.
Act 27:5 And when we had sailed across the open sea along the coast of Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came to
Myra in Lycia.
Act 27:6 There the centurion found a ship of Alexandria sailing for Italy and put us on board.
Act 27:7 We sailed slowly for a number of days and arrived with difficulty off Cnidus, and as the wind did not
allow us to go farther, we sailed under the lee of Crete off Salmone.
Act 27:8 Coasting along it with difficulty, we came to a place called Fair Havens, near which was the city of
Lasea.
Act 27:9 Since much time had passed, and the voyage was now dangerous because even the Fast was already
over, Paul advised them,
Act 27:10 saying, "Sirs, I perceive that the voyage will be with injury and much loss, not only of the cargo and
the ship, but also of our lives."
Act 27:11 But the centurion paid more attention to the pilot and to the owner of the ship than to what Paul said.
Act 27:12 And because the harbor was not suitable to spend the winter in, the majority decided to put out to sea
from there, on the chance that somehow they could reach Phoenix, a harbor of Crete, facing both southwest and
northwest, and spend the winter there.Act 27:13 Now when the south wind blew gently, supposing that they had obtained their purpose, they weighed
anchor and sailed along Crete, close to the shore.
Act 27:14 But soon a tempestuous wind, called the northeaster, struck down from the land.
Act 27:15 And when the ship was caught and could not face the wind, we gave way to it and were driven along.
Act 27:16 Running under the lee of a small island called Cauda, we managed with difficulty to secure the ship's
boat.
Act 27:17 After hoisting it up, they used supports to undergird the ship. Then, fearing that they would run
aground on the Syrtis, they lowered the gear, and thus they were driven along.
Act 27:18 Since we were violently storm-tossed, they began the next day to jettison the cargo.
Act 27:19 And on the third day they threw the ship's tackle overboard with their own hands.
Act 27:20 When neither sun nor stars appeared for many days, and no small tempest lay on us, all hope of our
being saved was at last abandoned.
Act 27:21 Since they had been without food for a long time, Paul stood up among them and said, "Men, you
should have listened to me and not have set sail from Crete and incurred this injury and loss.
Act 27:22 Yet now I urge you to take heart, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship.
Act 27:23 For this very night there stood before me an angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I worship,
Act 27:24 and he said, 'Do not be afraid, Paul; you must stand before Caesar. And behold, God has granted you
all those who sail with you.'
Act 27:25 So take heart, men, for I have faith in God that it will be exactly as I have been told.
Act 27:26 But we must run aground on some island."
Act 27:27 When the fourteenth night had come, as we were being driven across the Adriatic Sea, about
midnight the sailors suspected that they were nearing land.
Act 27:28 So they took a sounding and found twenty fathoms. A little farther on they took a sounding again and
found fifteen fathoms.
Act 27:29 And fearing that we might run on the rocks, they let down four anchors from the stern and prayed for
day to come.
Act 27:30 And as the sailors were seeking to escape from the ship, and had lowered the ship's boat into the sea
under pretense of laying out anchors from the bow,
Act 27:31 Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, "Unless these men stay in the ship, you cannot be saved."
Act 27:32 Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the ship's boat and let it go.
Act 27:33 As day was about to dawn, Paul urged them all to take some food, saying, "Today is the fourteenth
day that you have continued in suspense and without food, having taken nothing.
Act 27:34 Therefore I urge you to take some food. It will give you strength, for not a hair is to perish from the
head of any of you."
Act 27:35 And when he had said these things, he took bread, and giving thanks to God in the presence of all he
broke it and began to eat.
Act 27:36 Then they all were encouraged and ate some food themselves.
Act 27:37 (We were in all 276 persons in the ship.)
Act 27:38 And when they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship, throwing out the wheat into the sea.
Act 27:39 Now when it was day, they did not recognize the land, but they noticed a bay with a beach, on which
they planned if possible to run the ship ashore.
Act 27:40 So they cast off the anchors and left them in the sea, at the same time loosening the ropes that tied
the rudders. Then hoisting the foresail to the wind they made for the beach.
Act 27:41 But striking a reef, they ran the vessel aground. The bow stuck and remained immovable, and the
stern was being broken up by the surf.
Act 27:42 The soldiers' plan was to kill the prisoners, lest any should swim away and escape.
Act 27:43 But the centurion, wishing to save Paul, kept them from carrying out their plan. He ordered those who
could swim to jump overboard first and make for the land,
Act 27:44 and the rest on planks or on pieces of the ship. And so it was that all were brought safely to land.
Act 28:1 After we were brought safely through, we then learned that the island was called Malta.
Act 28:2 The native people showed us unusual kindness, for they kindled a fire and welcomed us all, because it
had begun to rain and was cold.
Act 28:3 When Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and put them on the fire, a viper came out because of the
heat and fastened on his hand.
Act 28:4 When the native people saw the creature hanging from his hand, they said to one another, "No doubt
this man is a murderer. Though he has escaped from the sea, Justice has not allowed him to live."
Act 28:5 He, however, shook off the creature into the fire and suffered no harm.
Act 28:6 They were waiting for him to swell up or suddenly fall down dead. But when they had waited a long
time and saw no misfortune come to him, they changed their minds and said that he was a god.Act 28:7 Now in the neighborhood of that place were lands belonging to the chief man of the island, named
Publius, who received us and entertained us hospitably for three days.
Act 28:8 It happened that the father of Publius lay sick with fever and dysentery. And Paul visited him and
prayed, and putting his hands on him healed him.
Act 28:9 And when this had taken place, the rest of the people on the island who had diseases also came and
were cured.
Act 28:10 They also honored us greatly, and when we were about to sail, they put on board whatever we
needed.
Act 28:11 After three months we set sail in a ship that had wintered in the island, a ship of Alexandria, with the
twin gods as a figurehead.
Act 28:12 Putting in at Syracuse, we stayed there for three days.
Act 28:13 And from there we made a circuit and arrived at Rhegium. And after one day a south wind sprang up,
and on the second day we came to Puteoli.
Act 28:14 There we found brothers and were invited to stay with them for seven days. And so we came to
Rome.
Act 28:15 And the brothers there, when they heard about us, came as far as the Forum of Appius and Three
Taverns to meet us. On seeing them, Paul thanked God and took courage.
Act 28:16 And when we came into Rome, Paul was allowed to stay by himself, with the soldier that guarded
him.
Act 28:17 After three days he called together the local leaders of the Jews, and when they had gathered, he
said to them, "Brothers, though I had done nothing against our people or the customs of our fathers, yet I was
delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans.
Act 28:18 When they had examined me, they wished to set me at liberty, because there was no reason for the
death penalty in my case.
Act 28:19 But because the Jews objected, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar- though I had no charge to bring
against my nation.
Act 28:20 For this reason, therefore, I have asked to see you and speak with you, since it is because of the
hope of Israel that I am wearing this chain."
Act 28:21 And they said to him, "We have received no letters from Judea about you, and none of the brothers
coming here has reported or spoken any evil about you.
Act 28:22 But we desire to hear from you what your views are, for with regard to this sect we know that
everywhere it is spoken against."
Act 28:23 When they had appointed a day for him, they came to him at his lodging in greater numbers. From
morning till evening he expounded to them, testifying to the kingdom of God and trying to convince them about
Jesus both from the Law of Moses and from the Prophets.
Act 28:24 And some were convinced by what he said, but others disbelieved.
Act 28:25 And disagreeing among themselves, they departed after Paul had made one statement: "The Holy
Spirit was right in saying to your fathers through Isaiah the prophet:
Act 28:26 "'Go to this people, and say, You will indeed hear but never understand, and you will indeed see but
never perceive.
Act 28:27 For this people's heart has grown dull, and with their ears they can barely hear, and their eyes they
have closed; lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their heart and
turn, and I would heal them.'
Act 28:28 Therefore let it be known to you that this salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles; they will
listen."
Act 28:29
Act 28:30 He lived there two whole years at his own expense, and welcomed all who came to him,
Act 28:31 proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness and
without hindrance.

1Co 1:1 Paul, called by the will of God to be an apostle of Christ Jesus, and our brother Sosthenes,
1Co 1:2 To the church of God that is in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints together
with all those who in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord and ours:
1Co 1:3 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1Co 1:4 I give thanks to my God always for you because of the grace of God that was given you in Christ Jesus,
1Co 1:5 that in every way you were enriched in him in all speech and all knowledge-
1Co 1:6 even as the testimony about Christ was confirmed among you-
1Co 1:7 so that you are not lacking in any spiritual gift, as you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ,
1Co 1:8 who will sustain you to the end, guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1Co 1:9 God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.
1Co 1:10 I appeal to you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree and that there be
no divisions among you, but that you be united in the same mind and the same judgment.
1Co 1:11 For it has been reported to me by Chloe's people that there is quarreling among you, my brothers.
1Co 1:12 What I mean is that each one of you says, "I follow Paul," or "I follow Apollos," or "I follow Cephas," or
"I follow Christ."
1Co 1:13 Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul?
1Co 1:14 I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius,
1Co 1:15 so that no one may say that you were baptized in my name.
1Co 1:16 (I did baptize also the household of Stephanas. Beyond that, I do not know whether I baptized anyone
else.)
1Co 1:17 For Christ did not send me to baptize but to preach the gospel, and not with words of eloquent
wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power.
1Co 1:18 For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the
power of God.
1Co 1:19 For it is written, "I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the discernment of the discerning I will
thwart."
1Co 1:20 Where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God
made foolish the wisdom of the world?
1Co 1:21 For since, in the wisdom of God, the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through
the folly of what we preach to save those who believe.
1Co 1:22 For Jews demand signs and Greeks seek wisdom,
1Co 1:23 but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and folly to Gentiles,
1Co 1:24 but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God.1Co 1:25 For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men.
1Co 1:26 For consider your calling, brothers: not many of you were wise according to worldly standards, not
many were powerful, not many were of noble birth.
1Co 1:27 But God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise; God chose what is weak in the world to
shame the strong;
1Co 1:28 God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things
that are,
1Co 1:29 so that no human being might boast in the presence of God.
1Co 1:30 He is the source of your life in Christ Jesus, whom God made our wisdom and our righteousness and
sanctification and redemption.
1Co 1:31 Therefore, as it is written, "Let the one who boasts, boast in the Lord."
1Co 2:1 And I, when I came to you, brothers, did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty
speech or wisdom.
1Co 2:2 For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified.
1Co 2:3 And I was with you in weakness and in fear and much trembling,
1Co 2:4 and my speech and my message were not in plausible words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the
Spirit and of power,
1Co 2:5 that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men but in the power of God.
1Co 2:6 Yet among the mature we do impart wisdom, although it is not a wisdom of this age or of the rulers of
this age, who are doomed to pass away.
1Co 2:7 But we impart a secret and hidden wisdom of God, which God decreed before the ages for our glory.
1Co 2:8 None of the rulers of this age understood this, for if they had, they would not have crucified the Lord of
glory.
1Co 2:9 But, as it is written, "What no eye has seen, nor ear heard, nor the heart of man imagined, what God
has prepared for those who love him"-
1Co 2:10 these things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the
depths of God.
1Co 2:11 For who knows a person's thoughts except the spirit of that person, which is in him? So also no one
comprehends the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God.
1Co 2:12 Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might
understand the things freely given us by God.
1Co 2:13 And we impart this in words not taught by human wisdom but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual
truths to those who are spiritual.
1Co 2:14 The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is
not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned.
1Co 2:15 The spiritual person judges all things, but is himself to be judged by no one.
1Co 2:16 "For who has understood the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him?" But we have the mind of Christ.
1Co 3:1 But I, brothers, could not address you as spiritual people, but as people of the flesh, as infants in Christ.
1Co 3:2 I fed you with milk, not solid food, for you were not ready for it. And even now you are not yet ready,
1Co 3:3 for you are still of the flesh. For while there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not of the flesh
and behaving only in a human way?
1Co 3:4 For when one says, "I follow Paul," and another, "I follow Apollos," are you not being merely human?
1Co 3:5 What then is Apollos? What is Paul? Servants through whom you believed, as the Lord assigned to
each.
1Co 3:6 I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth.
1Co 3:7 So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who gives the growth.
1Co 3:8 He who plants and he who waters are one, and each will receive his wages according to his labor.
1Co 3:9 For we are God's fellow workers. You are God's field, God's building.
1Co 3:10 According to the grace of God given to me, like a skilled master builder I laid a foundation, and
someone else is building upon it. Let each one take care how he builds upon it.
1Co 3:11 For no one can lay a foundation other than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ.
1Co 3:12 Now if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw-
1Co 3:13 each one's work will become manifest, for the Day will disclose it, because it will be revealed by fire,
and the fire will test what sort of work each one has done.
1Co 3:14 If the work that anyone has built on the foundation survives, he will receive a reward.
1Co 3:15 If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, though he himself will be saved, but only as through
fire.
1Co 3:16 Do you not know that you are God's temple and that God's Spirit dwells in you?
1Co 3:17 If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him. For God's temple is holy, and you are thattemple.
1Co 3:18 Let no one deceive himself. If anyone among you thinks that he is wise in this age, let him become a
fool that he may become wise.
1Co 3:19 For the wisdom of this world is folly with God. For it is written, "He catches the wise in their craftiness,"
1Co 3:20 and again, "The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are futile."
1Co 3:21 So let no one boast in men. For all things are yours,
1Co 3:22 whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or the present or the future- all are
yours,
1Co 3:23 and you are Christ's, and Christ is God's.
1Co 4:1 This is how one should regard us, as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
1Co 4:2 Moreover, it is required of stewards that they be found trustworthy.
1Co 4:3 But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by any human court. In fact, I do
not even judge myself.
1Co 4:4 I am not aware of anything against myself, but I am not thereby acquitted. It is the Lord who judges me.
1Co 4:5 Therefore do not pronounce judgment before the time, before the Lord comes, who will bring to light the
things now hidden in darkness and will disclose the purposes of the heart. Then each one will receive his
commendation from God.
1Co 4:6 I have applied all these things to myself and Apollos for your benefit, brothers, that you may learn by us
not to go beyond what is written, that none of you may be puffed up in favor of one against another.
1Co 4:7 For who sees anything different in you? What do you have that you did not receive? If then you
received it, why do you boast as if you did not receive it?
1Co 4:8 Already you have all you want! Already you have become rich! Without us you have become kings! And
would that you did reign, so that we might share the rule with you!
1Co 4:9 For I think that God has exhibited us apostles as last of all, like men sentenced to death, because we
have become a spectacle to the world, to angels, and to men.
1Co 4:10 We are fools for Christ's sake, but you are wise in Christ. We are weak, but you are strong. You are
held in honor, but we in disrepute.
1Co 4:11 To the present hour we hunger and thirst, we are poorly dressed and buffeted and homeless,
1Co 4:12 and we labor, working with our own hands. When reviled, we bless; when persecuted, we endure;
1Co 4:13 when slandered, we entreat. We have become, and are still, like the scum of the world, the refuse of
all things.
1Co 4:14 I do not write these things to make you ashamed, but to admonish you as my beloved children.
1Co 4:15 For though you have countless guides in Christ, you do not have many fathers. For I became your
father in Christ Jesus through the gospel.
1Co 4:16 I urge you, then, be imitators of me.
1Co 4:17 That is why I sent you Timothy, my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, to remind you of my ways in
Christ, as I teach them everywhere in every church.
1Co 4:18 Some are arrogant, as though I were not coming to you.
1Co 4:19 But I will come to you soon, if the Lord wills, and I will find out not the talk of these arrogant people but
their power.
1Co 4:20 For the kingdom of God does not consist in talk but in power.
1Co 4:21 What do you wish? Shall I come to you with a rod, or with love in a spirit of gentleness?
1Co 5:1 It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and of a kind that is not tolerated even
among pagans, for a man has his father's wife.
1Co 5:2 And you are arrogant! Ought you not rather to mourn? Let him who has done this be removed from
among you.
1Co 5:3 For though absent in body, I am present in spirit; and as if present, I have already pronounced
judgment on the one who did such a thing.
1Co 5:4 When you are assembled in the name of the Lord Jesus and my spirit is present, with the power of our
Lord Jesus,
1Co 5:5 you are to deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in
the day of the Lord.
1Co 5:6 Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump?
1Co 5:7 Cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, as you really are unleavened. For Christ, our
Passover lamb, has been sacrificed.
1Co 5:8 Let us therefore celebrate the festival, not with the old leaven, the leaven of malice and evil, but with the
unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.
1Co 5:9 I wrote to you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people-
1Co 5:10 not at all meaning the sexually immoral of this world, or the greedy and swindlers, or idolaters, sincethen you would need to go out of the world.
1Co 5:11 But now I am writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother if he is guilty
of sexual immorality or greed, or is an idolater, reviler, drunkard, or swindler- not even to eat with such a one.
1Co 5:12 For what have I to do with judging outsiders? Is it not those inside the church whom you are to judge?
1Co 5:13 God judges those outside. "Purge the evil person from among you."
1Co 6:1 When one of you has a grievance against another, does he dare go to law before the unrighteous
instead of the saints?
1Co 6:2 Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you
incompetent to try trivial cases?
1Co 6:3 Do you not know that we are to judge angels? How much more, then, matters pertaining to this life!
1Co 6:4 So if you have such cases, why do you lay them before those who have no standing in the church?
1Co 6:5 I say this to your shame. Can it be that there is no one among you wise enough to settle a dispute
between the brothers,
1Co 6:6 but brother goes to law against brother, and that before unbelievers?
1Co 6:7 To have lawsuits at all with one another is already a defeat for you. Why not rather suffer wrong? Why
not rather be defrauded?
1Co 6:8 But you yourselves wrong and defraud- even your own brothers!
1Co 6:9 Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither
the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality,
1Co 6:10 nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God.
1Co 6:11 And such were some of you. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the
name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God.
1Co 6:12 "All things are lawful for me," but not all things are helpful. "All things are lawful for me," but I will not
be enslaved by anything.
1Co 6:13 "Food is meant for the stomach and the stomach for food"- and God will destroy both one and the
other. The body is not meant for sexual immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body.
1Co 6:14 And God raised the Lord and will also raise us up by his power.
1Co 6:15 Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and
make them members of a prostitute? Never!
1Co 6:16 Or do you not know that he who is joined to a prostitute becomes one body with her? For, as it is
written, "The two will become one flesh."
1Co 6:17 But he who is joined to the Lord becomes one spirit with him.
1Co 6:18 Flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is outside the body, but the sexually
immoral person sins against his own body.
1Co 6:19 Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from
God? You are not your own,
1Co 6:20 for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body.
1Co 7:1 Now concerning the matters about which you wrote: "It is good for a man not to have sexual relations
with a woman."
1Co 7:2 But because of the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife and each
woman her own husband.
1Co 7:3 The husband should give to his wife her conjugal rights, and likewise the wife to her husband.
1Co 7:4 For the wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does. Likewise the husband
does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does.
1Co 7:5 Do not deprive one another, except perhaps by agreement for a limited time, that you may devote
yourselves to prayer; but then come together again, so that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of
self-control.
1Co 7:6 Now as a concession, not a command, I say this.
1Co 7:7 I wish that all were as I myself am. But each has his own gift from God, one of one kind and one of
another.
1Co 7:8 To the unmarried and the widows I say that it is good for them to remain single as I am.
1Co 7:9 But if they cannot exercise self-control, they should marry. For it is better to marry than to be aflame
with passion.
1Co 7:10 To the married I give this charge (not I, but the Lord): the wife should not separate from her husband
1Co 7:11 (but if she does, she should remain unmarried or else be reconciled to her husband), and the husband
should not divorce his wife.
1Co 7:12 To the rest I say (I, not the Lord) that if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever, and she consents
to live with him, he should not divorce her.
1Co 7:13 If any woman has a husband who is an unbeliever, and he consents to live with her, she should notdivorce him.
1Co 7:14 For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife, and the unbelieving wife is made holy
because of her husband. Otherwise your children would be unclean, but as it is, they are holy.
1Co 7:15 But if the unbelieving partner separates, let it be so. In such cases the brother or sister is not
enslaved. God has called you to peace.
1Co 7:16 Wife, how do you know whether you will save your husband? Husband, how do you know whether you
will save your wife?
1Co 7:17 Only let each person lead the life that the Lord has assigned to him, and to which God has called him.
This is my rule in all the churches.
1Co 7:18 Was anyone at the time of his call already circumcised? Let him not seek to remove the marks of
circumcision. Was anyone at the time of his call uncircumcised? Let him not seek circumcision.
1Co 7:19 For neither circumcision counts for anything nor uncircumcision, but keeping the commandments of
God.
1Co 7:20 Each one should remain in the condition in which he was called.
1Co 7:21 Were you a slave when called? Do not be concerned about it. But if you can gain your freedom, avail
yourself of the opportunity.
1Co 7:22 For he who was called in the Lord as a slave is a freedman of the Lord. Likewise he who was free
when called is a slave of Christ.
1Co 7:23 You were bought with a price; do not become slaves of men.
1Co 7:24 So, brothers, in whatever condition each was called, there let him remain with God.
1Co 7:25 Now concerning the betrothed, I have no command from the Lord, but I give my judgment as one who
by the Lord's mercy is trustworthy.
1Co 7:26 I think that in view of the present distress it is good for a person to remain as he is.
1Co 7:27 Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be free. Are you free from a wife? Do not seek a wife.
1Co 7:28 But if you do marry, you have not sinned, and if a betrothed woman marries, she has not sinned. Yet
those who marry will have worldly troubles, and I would spare you that.
1Co 7:29 This is what I mean, brothers: the appointed time has grown very short. From now on, let those who
have wives live as though they had none,
1Co 7:30 and those who mourn as though they were not mourning, and those who rejoice as though they were
not rejoicing, and those who buy as though they had no goods,
1Co 7:31 and those who deal with the world as though they had no dealings with it. For the present form of this
world is passing away.
1Co 7:32 I want you to be free from anxieties. The unmarried man is anxious about the things of the Lord, how
to please the Lord.
1Co 7:33 But the married man is anxious about worldly things, how to please his wife,
1Co 7:34 and his interests are divided. And the unmarried or be trothed woman is anxious about the things of
the Lord, how to be holy in body and spirit. But the married woman is anxious about worldly things, how to
please her husband.
1Co 7:35 I say this for your own benefit, not to lay any restraint upon you, but to promote good order and to
secure your undivided devotion to the Lord.
1Co 7:36 If anyone thinks that he is not behaving properly toward his be trothed, if his passions are strong, and
it has to be, let him do as he wishes: let them marry- it is no sin.
1Co 7:37 But whoever is firmly established in his heart, being under no necessity but having his desire under
control, and has determined this in his heart, to keep her as his betrothed, he will do well.
1Co 7:38 So then he who marries his betrothed does well, and he who refrains from marriage will do even
better.
1Co 7:39 A wife is bound to her husband as long as he lives. But if her husband dies, she is free to be married
to whom she wishes, only in the Lord.
1Co 7:40 Yet in my judgment she is happier if she remains as she is. And I think that I too have the Spirit of
God.
1Co 8:1 Now concerning food offered to idols: we know that "all of us possess knowledge." This "knowledge"
puffs up, but love builds up.
1Co 8:2 If anyone imagines that he knows something, he does not yet know as he ought to know.
1Co 8:3 But if anyone loves God, he is known by God.
1Co 8:4 Therefore, as to the eating of food offered to idols, we know that "an idol has no real existence," and
that "there is no God but one."
1Co 8:5 For although there may be so-called gods in heaven or on earth- as indeed there are many "gods" and
many "lords"-
1Co 8:6 yet for us there is one God, the Father, from whom are all things and for whom we exist, and one Lord,Jesus Christ, through whom are all things and through whom we exist.
1Co 8:7 However, not all possess this knowledge. But some, through former association with idols, eat food as
really offered to an idol, and their conscience, being weak, is defiled.
1Co 8:8 Food will not commend us to God. We are no worse off if we do not eat, and no better off if we do.
1Co 8:9 But take care that this right of yours does not somehow become a stumbling block to the weak.
1Co 8:10 For if anyone sees you who have knowledge eating in an idol's temple, will he not be encouraged, if
his conscience is weak, to eat food offered to idols?
1Co 8:11 And so by your knowledge this weak person is destroyed, the brother for whom Christ died.
1Co 8:12 Thus, sinning against your brothers and wounding their conscience when it is weak, you sin against
Christ.
1Co 8:13 Therefore, if food makes my brother stumble, I will never eat meat, lest I make my brother stumble.
1Co 9:1 Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are not you my workmanship in
the Lord?
1Co 9:2 If to others I am not an apostle, at least I am to you, for you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord.
1Co 9:3 This is my defense to those who would examine me.
1Co 9:4 Do we not have the right to eat and drink?
1Co 9:5 Do we not have the right to take along a believing wife, as do the other apostles and the brothers of the
Lord and Cephas?
1Co 9:6 Or is it only Barnabas and I who have no right to refrain from working for a living?
1Co 9:7 Who serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard without eating any of its fruit? Or
who tends a flock without getting some of the milk?
1Co 9:8 Do I say these things on human authority? Does not the Law say the same?
1Co 9:9 For it is written in the Law of Moses, "You shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain." Is it for
oxen that God is concerned?
1Co 9:10 Does he not speak entirely for our sake? It was written for our sake, because the plowman should
plow in hope and the thresher thresh in hope of sharing in the crop.
1Co 9:11 If we have sown spiritual things among you, is it too much if we reap material things from you?
1Co 9:12 If others share this rightful claim on you, do not we even more? Nevertheless, we have not made use
of this right, but we endure anything rather than put an obstacle in the way of the gospel of Christ.
1Co 9:13 Do you not know that those who are employed in the temple service get their food from the temple,
and those who serve at the altar share in the sacrificial offerings?
1Co 9:14 In the same way, the Lord commanded that those who proclaim the gospel should get their living by
the gospel.
1Co 9:15 But I have made no use of any of these rights, nor am I writing these things to secure any such
provision. For I would rather die than have anyone deprive me of my ground for boasting.
1Co 9:16 For if I preach the gospel, that gives me no ground for boasting. For necessity is laid upon me. Woe to
me if I do not preach the gospel!
1Co 9:17 For if I do this of my own will, I have a reward, but not of my own will, I am still entrusted with a
stewardship.
1Co 9:18 What then is my reward? That in my preaching I may present the gospel free of charge, so as not to
make full use of my right in the gospel.
1Co 9:19 For though I am free from all, I have made myself a servant to all, that I might win more of them.
1Co 9:20 To the Jews I became as a Jew, in order to win Jews. To those under the law I became as one under
the law (though not being myself under the law) that I might win those under the law.
1Co 9:21 To those outside the law I became as one outside the law (not being outside the law of God but under
the law of Christ) that I might win those outside the law.
1Co 9:22 To the weak I became weak, that I might win the weak. I have become all things to all people, that by
all means I might save some.
1Co 9:23 I do it all for the sake of the gospel, that I may share with them in its blessings.
1Co 9:24 Do you not know that in a race all the runners compete, but only one receives the prize? So run that
you may obtain it.
1Co 9:25 Every athlete exercises self-control in all things. They do it to receive a perishable wreath, but we an
imperishable.
1Co 9:26 So I do not run aimlessly; I do not box as one beating the air.
1Co 9:27 But I discipline my body and keep it under control, lest after preaching to others I myself should be
disqualified.
1Co 10:1 I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea,
1Co 10:2 and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea,
1Co 10:3 and all ate the same spiritual food,1Co 10:4 and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual Rock that followed them, and
the Rock was Christ.
1Co 10:5 Nevertheless, with most of them God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness.
1Co 10:6 Now these things took place as examples for us, that we might not desire evil as they did.
1Co 10:7 Do not be idolaters as some of them were; as it is written, "The people sat down to eat and drink and
rose up to play."
1Co 10:8 We must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in a
single day.
1Co 10:9 We must not put Christ to the test, as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents,
1Co 10:10 nor grumble, as some of them did and were destroyed by the Destroyer.
1Co 10:11 Now these things happened to them as an example, but they were written down for our instruction,
on whom the end of the ages has come.
1Co 10:12 Therefore let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall.
1Co 10:13 No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you
be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation he will also provide the way of escape, that you may be
able to endure it.
1Co 10:14 Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.
1Co 10:15 I speak as to sensible people; judge for yourselves what I say.
1Co 10:16 The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we
break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ?
1Co 10:17 Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread.
1Co 10:18 Consider the people of Israel: are not those who eat the sacrifices participants in the altar?
1Co 10:19 What do I imply then? That food offered to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything?
1Co 10:20 No, I imply that what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be
participants with demons.
1Co 10:21 You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the
Lord and the table of demons.
1Co 10:22 Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he?
1Co 10:23 "All things are lawful," but not all things are helpful. "All things are lawful," but not all things build up.
1Co 10:24 Let no one seek his own good, but the good of his neighbor.
1Co 10:25 Eat whatever is sold in the meat market without raising any question on the ground of conscience.
1Co 10:26 For "the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof."
1Co 10:27 If one of the unbelievers invites you to dinner and you are disposed to go, eat whatever is set before
you without raising any question on the ground of conscience.
1Co 10:28 But if someone says to you, "This has been offered in sacrifice," then do not eat it, for the sake of the
one who informed you, and for the sake of conscience-
1Co 10:29 I do not mean your conscience, but his. For why should my liberty be determined by someone else's
conscience?
1Co 10:30 If I partake with thankfulness, why am I denounced because of that for which I give thanks?
1Co 10:31 So, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God.
1Co 10:32 Give no offense to Jews or to Greeks or to the church of God,
1Co 10:33 just as I try to please everyone in everything I do, not seeking my own advantage, but that of many,
that they may be saved.
1Co 11:1
1Co 11:2 Be imitators of me, as I am of Christ.
1Co 11:3 Now I commend you because you remember me in everything and maintain the traditions even as I
delivered them to you.
1Co 11:4 But I want you to understand that the head of every man is Christ, the head of a wife is her husband,
and the head of Christ is God.
1Co 11:5 Every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered dishonors his head,
1Co 11:6 but every wife who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head- it is the same as
if her head were shaven.
1Co 11:7 For if a wife will not cover her head, then she should cut her hair short. But since it is disgraceful for a
wife to cut off her hair or shave her head, let her cover her head.
1Co 11:8 For a man ought not to cover his head, since he is the image and glory of God, but woman is the glory
of man.
1Co 11:9 For man was not made from woman, but woman from man.
1Co 11:10 Neither was man created for woman, but woman for man.
1Co 11:11 That is why a wife ought to have a symbol of authority on her head, because of the angels.1Co 11:12 Nevertheless, in the Lord woman is not independent of man nor man of woman;
1Co 11:13 for as woman was made from man, so man is now born of woman. And all things are from God.
1Co 11:14 Judge for yourselves: is it proper for a wife to pray to God with her head uncovered?
1Co 11:15 Does not nature itself teach you that if a man wears long hair it is a disgrace for him,
1Co 11:16 but if a woman has long hair, it is her glory? For her hair is given to her for a covering.
1Co 11:17 If anyone is inclined to be contentious, we have no such practice, nor do the churches of God.
1Co 11:18 But in the following instructions I do not commend you, because when you come together it is not for
the better but for the worse.
1Co 11:19 For, in the first place, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are divisions among
you. And I believe it in part,
1Co 11:20 for there must be factions among you in order that those who are genuine among you may be
recognized.
1Co 11:21 When you come together, it is not the Lord's supper that you eat.
1Co 11:22 For in eating, each one goes ahead with his own meal. One goes hungry, another gets drunk.
1Co 11:23 What! Do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and
humiliate those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I commend you in this? No, I will not.
1Co 11:24 For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he
was betrayed took bread,
1Co 11:25 and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, "This is my body which is for you. Do this in
remembrance of me."
1Co 11:26 In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, "This cup is the new covenant in my
blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me."
1Co 11:27 For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.
1Co 11:28 Whoever, therefore, eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty
of profaning the body and blood of the Lord.
1Co 11:29 Let a person examine himself, then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup.
1Co 11:30 For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself.
1Co 11:31 That is why many of you are weak and ill, and some have died.
1Co 11:32 But if we judged ourselves truly, we would not be judged.
1Co 11:33 But when we are judged by the Lord, we are disciplined so that we may not be condemned along
with the world.
1Co 11:34 So then, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another-
1Co 11:35 if anyone is hungry, let him eat at home- so that when you come together it will not be for judgment.
About the other things I will give directions when I come.
1Co 12:1 Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be uninformed.
1Co 12:2 You know that when you were pagans you were led astray to mute idols, however you were led.
1Co 12:3 Therefore I want you to understand that no one speaking in the Spirit of God ever says "Jesus is
accursed!" and no one can say "Jesus is Lord" except in the Holy Spirit.
1Co 12:4 Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit;
1Co 12:5 and there are varieties of service, but the same Lord;
1Co 12:6 and there are varieties of activities, but it is the same God who empowers them all in everyone.
1Co 12:7 To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good.
1Co 12:8 To one is given through the Spirit the utterance of wisdom, and to another the utterance of knowledge
according to the same Spirit,
1Co 12:9 to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit,
1Co 12:10 to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another the ability to distinguish between
spirits, to another various kinds of tongues, to another the interpretation of tongues.
1Co 12:11 All these are empowered by one and the same Spirit, who apportions to each one individually as he
wills.
1Co 12:12 For just as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of the body, though many,
are one body, so it is with Christ.
1Co 12:13 For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body- Jews or Greeks, slaves or free- and all were
made to drink of one Spirit.
1Co 12:14 For the body does not consist of one member but of many.
1Co 12:15 If the foot should say, "Because I am not a hand, I do not belong to the body," that would not make it
any less a part of the body.
1Co 12:16 And if the ear should say, "Because I am not an eye, I do not belong to the body," that would not
make it any less a part of the body.
1Co 12:17 If the whole body were an eye, where would be the sense of hearing? If the whole body were an ear,where would be the sense of smell?
1Co 12:18 But as it is, God arranged the members in the body, each one of them, as he chose.
1Co 12:19 If all were a single member, where would the body be?
1Co 12:20 As it is, there are many parts, yet one body.
1Co 12:21 The eye cannot say to the hand, "I have no need of you," nor again the head to the feet, "I have no
need of you."
1Co 12:22 On the contrary, the parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable,
1Co 12:23 and on those parts of the body that we think less honorable we bestow the greater honor, and our
unpresentable parts are treated with greater modesty,
1Co 12:24 which our more presentable parts do not require. But God has so composed the body, giving greater
honor to the part that lacked it,
1Co 12:25 that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one
another.
1Co 12:26 If one member suffers, all suffer together; if one member is honored, all rejoice together.
1Co 12:27 Now you are the body of Christ and individually members of it.
1Co 12:28 And God has appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles,
then gifts of healing, helping, administrating, and various kinds of tongues.
1Co 12:29 Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all work miracles?
1Co 12:30 Do all possess gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret?
1Co 12:31 But earnestly desire the higher gifts. And I will show you a still more excellent way.
1Co 13:1 If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging
cymbal.
1Co 13:2 And if I have prophetic powers, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith,
so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing.
1Co 13:3 If I give away all I have, and if I deliver up my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing.
1Co 13:4 Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or boast; it is not arrogant
1Co 13:5 or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful;
1Co 13:6 it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth.
1Co 13:7 Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.
1Co 13:8 Love never ends. As for prophecies, they will pass away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for
knowledge, it will pass away.
1Co 13:9 For we know in part and we prophesy in part,
1Co 13:10 but when the perfect comes, the partial will pass away.
1Co 13:11 When I was a child, I spoke like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child. When I became
a man, I gave up childish ways.
1Co 13:12 For now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to face. Now I know in part; then I shall know fully,
even as I have been fully known.
1Co 13:13 So now faith, hope, and love abide, these three; but the greatest of these is love.
1Co 14:1 Pursue love, and earnestly desire the spiritual gifts, especially that you may prophesy.
1Co 14:2 For one who speaks in a tongue speaks not to men but to God; for no one understands him, but he
utters mysteries in the Spirit.
1Co 14:3 On the other hand, the one who prophesies speaks to people for their upbuilding and encouragement
and consolation.
1Co 14:4 The one who speaks in a tongue builds up himself, but the one who prophesies builds up the church.
1Co 14:5 Now I want you all to speak in tongues, but even more to prophesy. The one who prophesies is
greater than the one who speaks in tongues, unless someone interprets, so that the church may be built up.
1Co 14:6 Now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, how will I benefit you unless I bring you some
revelation or knowledge or prophecy or teaching?
1Co 14:7 If even lifeless instruments, such as the flute or the harp, do not give distinct notes, how will anyone
know what is played?
1Co 14:8 And if the bugle gives an indistinct sound, who will get ready for battle?
1Co 14:9 So with yourselves, if with your tongue you utter speech that is not intelligible, how will anyone know
what is said? For you will be speaking into the air.
1Co 14:10 There are doubtless many different languages in the world, and none is without meaning,
1Co 14:11 but if I do not know the meaning of the language, I will be a foreigner to the speaker and the speaker
a foreigner to me.
1Co 14:12 So with yourselves, since you are eager for manifestations of the Spirit, strive to excel in building up
the church.
1Co 14:13 Therefore, one who speaks in a tongue should pray for the power to interpret.1Co 14:14 For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays but my mind is unfruitful.
1Co 14:15 What am I to do? I will pray with my spirit, but I will pray with my mind also; I will sing praise with my
spirit, but I will sing with my mind also.
1Co 14:16 Otherwise, if you give thanks with your spirit, how can anyone in the position of an outsider say
"Amen" to your thanksgiving when he does not know what you are saying?
1Co 14:17 For you may be giving thanks well enough, but the other person is not being built up.
1Co 14:18 I thank God that I speak in tongues more than all of you.
1Co 14:19 Nevertheless, in church I would rather speak five words with my mind in order to instruct others, than
ten thousand words in a tongue.
1Co 14:20 Brothers, do not be children in your thinking. Be infants in evil, but in your thinking be mature.
1Co 14:21 In the Law it is written, "By people of strange tongues and by the lips of foreigners will I speak to this
people, and even then they will not listen to me, says the Lord."
1Co 14:22 Thus tongues are a sign not for believers but for unbelievers, while prophecy is a sign not for
unbelievers but for believers.
1Co 14:23 If, therefore, the whole church comes together and all speak in tongues, and outsiders or unbelievers
enter, will they not say that you are out of your minds?
1Co 14:24 But if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or outsider enters, he is convicted by all, he is called to
account by all,
1Co 14:25 the secrets of his heart are disclosed, and so, falling on his face, he will worship God and declare
that God is really among you.
1Co 14:26 What then, brothers? When you come together, each one has a hymn, a lesson, a revelation, a
tongue, or an interpretation. Let all things be done for building up.
1Co 14:27 If any speak in a tongue, let there be only two or at most three, and each in turn, and let someone
interpret.
1Co 14:28 But if there is no one to interpret, let each of them keep silent in church and speak to himself and to
God.
1Co 14:29 Let two or three prophets speak, and let the others weigh what is said.
1Co 14:30 If a revelation is made to another sitting there, let the first be silent.
1Co 14:31 For you can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all be encouraged,
1Co 14:32 and the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets.
1Co 14:33 For God is not a God of confusion but of peace. As in all the churches of the saints,
1Co 14:34 the women should keep silent in the churches. For they are not permitted to speak, but should be in
submission, as the Law also says.
1Co 14:35 If there is anything they desire to learn, let them ask their husbands at home. For it is shameful for a
woman to speak in church.
1Co 14:36 Or was it from you that the word of God came? Or are you the only ones it has reached?
1Co 14:37 If anyone thinks that he is a prophet, or spiritual, he should acknowledge that the things I am writing
to you are a command of the Lord.
1Co 14:38 If anyone does not recognize this, he is not recognized.
1Co 14:39 So, my brothers, earnestly desire to prophesy, and do not forbid speaking in tongues.
1Co 14:40 But all things should be done decently and in order.
1Co 15:1 Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preached to you, which you received, in which you
stand,
1Co 15:2 and by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached to you- unless you believed
in vain.
1Co 15:3 For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received: that Christ died for our sins in
accordance with the Scriptures,
1Co 15:4 that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures,
1Co 15:5 and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve.
1Co 15:6 Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive, though
some have fallen asleep.
1Co 15:7 Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles.
1Co 15:8 Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me.
1Co 15:9 For I am the least of the apostles, unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church
of God.
1Co 15:10 But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I
worked harder than any of them, though it was not I, but the grace of God that is with me.
1Co 15:11 Whether then it was I or they, so we preach and so you believed.
1Co 15:12 Now if Christ is proclaimed as raised from the dead, how can some of you say that there is noresurrection of the dead?
1Co 15:13 But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised.
1Co 15:14 And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain and your faith is in vain.
1Co 15:15 We are even found to be misrepresenting God, because we testified about God that he raised Christ,
whom he did not raise if it is true that the dead are not raised.
1Co 15:16 For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised.
1Co 15:17 And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile and you are still in your sins.
1Co 15:18 Then those also who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished.
1Co 15:19 If in this life only we have hoped in Christ, we are of all people most to be pitied.
1Co 15:20 But in fact Christ has been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep.
1Co 15:21 For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead.
1Co 15:22 For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive.
1Co 15:23 But each in his own order: Christ the firstfruits, then at his coming those who belong to Christ.
1Co 15:24 Then comes the end, when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule
and every authority and power.
1Co 15:25 For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet.
1Co 15:26 The last enemy to be destroyed is death.
1Co 15:27 For "God has put all things in subjection under his feet." But when it says, "all things are put in
subjection," it is plain that he is excepted who put all things in subjection under him.
1Co 15:28 When all things are subjected to him, then the Son himself will also be subjected to him who put all
things in subjection under him, that God may be all in all.
1Co 15:29 Otherwise, what do people mean by being baptized on behalf of the dead? If the dead are not raised
at all, why are people baptized on their behalf?
1Co 15:30 Why am I in danger every hour?
1Co 15:31 I protest, brothers, by my pride in you, which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die every day!
1Co 15:32 What do I gain if, humanly speaking, I fought with beasts at Ephesus? If the dead are not raised, "Let
us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die."
1Co 15:33 Do not be deceived: "Bad company ruins good morals."
1Co 15:34 Wake up from your drunken stupor, as is right, and do not go on sinning. For some have no
knowledge of God. I say this to your shame.
1Co 15:35 But someone will ask, "How are the dead raised? With what kind of body do they come?"
1Co 15:36 You foolish person! What you sow does not come to life unless it dies.
1Co 15:37 And what you sow is not the body that is to be, but a bare kernel, perhaps of wheat or of some other
grain.
1Co 15:38 But God gives it a body as he has chosen, and to each kind of seed its own body.
1Co 15:39 For not all flesh is the same, but there is one kind for humans, another for animals, another for birds,
and another for fish.
1Co 15:40 There are heavenly bodies and earthly bodies, but the glory of the heavenly is of one kind, and the
glory of the earthly is of another.
1Co 15:41 There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for star
differs from star in glory.
1Co 15:42 So is it with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable; what is raised is imperishable.
1Co 15:43 It is sown in dishonor; it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness; it is raised in power.
1Co 15:44 It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual
body.
1Co 15:45 Thus it is written, "The first man Adam became a living being"; the last Adam became a life-giving
spirit.
1Co 15:46 But it is not the spiritual that is first but the natural, and then the spiritual.
1Co 15:47 The first man was from the earth, a man of dust; the second man is from heaven.
1Co 15:48 As was the man of dust, so also are those who are of the dust, and as is the man of heaven, so also
are those who are of heaven.
1Co 15:49 Just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the man of
heaven.
1Co 15:50 I tell you this, brothers: flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable
inherit the imperishable.
1Co 15:51 Behold! I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed,
1Co 15:52 in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead
will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed.
1Co 15:53 For this perishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality.1Co 15:54 When the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to
pass the saying that is written: "Death is swallowed up in victory."
1Co 15:55 "O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting?"
1Co 15:56 The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law.
1Co 15:57 But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
1Co 15:58 Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord,
knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain.
1Co 16:1 Now concerning the collection for the saints: as I directed the churches of Galatia, so you also are to
do.
1Co 16:2 On the first day of every week, each of you is to put something aside and store it up, as he may
prosper, so that there will be no collecting when I come.
1Co 16:3 And when I arrive, I will send those whom you accredit by letter to carry your gift to Jerusalem.
1Co 16:4 If it seems advisable that I should go also, they will accompany me.
1Co 16:5 I will visit you after passing through Macedonia, for I intend to pass through Macedonia,
1Co 16:6 and perhaps I will stay with you or even spend the winter, so that you may help me on my journey,
wherever I go.
1Co 16:7 For I do not want to see you now just in passing. I hope to spend some time with you, if the Lord
permits.
1Co 16:8 But I will stay in Ephesus until Pentecost,
1Co 16:9 for a wide door for effective work has opened to me, and there are many adversaries.
1Co 16:10 When Timothy comes, see that you put him at ease among you, for he is doing the work of the Lord,
as I am.
1Co 16:11 So let no one despise him. Help him on his way in peace, that he may return to me, for I am
expecting him with the brothers.
1Co 16:12 Now concerning our brother Apollos, I strongly urged him to visit you with the other brothers, but it
was not at all his will to come now. He will come when he has opportunity.
1Co 16:13 Be watchful, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong.
1Co 16:14 Let all that you do be done in love.
1Co 16:15 Now I urge you, brothers- you know that the household of Stephanas were the first converts in
Achaia, and that they have devoted themselves to the service of the saints-
1Co 16:16 be subject to such as these, and to every fellow worker and laborer.
1Co 16:17 I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because they have made up for
your absence,
1Co 16:18 for they refreshed my spirit as well as yours. Give recognition to such men.
1Co 16:19 The churches of Asia send you greetings. Aquila and Prisca, together with the church in their house,
send you hearty greetings in the Lord.
1Co 16:20 All the brothers send you greetings. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
1Co 16:21 I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand.
1Co 16:22 If anyone has no love for the Lord, let him be accursed. Our Lord, come!
1Co 16:23 The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
1Co 16:24 My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.
2Co 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, To the church of God that
is at Corinth, with all the saints who are in the whole of Achaia:
2Co 1:2 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2Co 1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort,
2Co 1:4 who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction,
with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God.
2Co 1:5 For as we share abundantly in Christ's sufferings, so through Christ we share abundantly in comfort
too.
2Co 1:6 If we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and salvation; and if we are comforted, it is for your comfort,
which you experience when you patiently endure the same sufferings that we suffer.
2Co 1:7 Our hope for you is unshaken, for we know that as you share in our sufferings, you will also share in
our comfort.
2Co 1:8 For we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, of the affliction we experienced in Asia. For we were
so utterly burdened beyond our strength that we despaired of life itself.
2Co 1:9 Indeed, we felt that we had received the sentence of death. But that was to make us rely not on
ourselves but on God who raises the dead.
2Co 1:10 He delivered us from such a deadly peril, and he will deliver us. On him we have set our hope that he
will deliver us again.2Co 1:11 You also must help us by prayer, so that many will give thanks on our behalf for the blessing granted
us through the prayers of many.
2Co 1:12 For our boast is this: the testimony of our conscience that we behaved in the world with simplicity and
godly sincerity, not by earthly wisdom but by the grace of God, and supremely so toward you.
2Co 1:13 For we are not writing to you anything other than what you read and acknowledge and I hope you will
fully acknowledge-
2Co 1:14 just as you did partially acknowledge us, that on the day of our Lord Jesus you will boast of us as we
will boast of you.
2Co 1:15 Because I was sure of this, I wanted to come to you first, so that you might have a second experience
of grace.
2Co 1:16 I wanted to visit you on my way to Macedonia, and to come back to you from Macedonia and have
you send me on my way to Judea.
2Co 1:17 Was I vacillating when I wanted to do this? Do I make my plans according to the flesh, ready to say
"Yes, yes" and "No, no" at the same time?
2Co 1:18 As surely as God is faithful, our word to you has not been Yes and No.
2Co 1:19 For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, whom we proclaimed among you, Silvanus and Timothy and I, was
not Yes and No, but in him it is always Yes.
2Co 1:20 For all the promises of God find their Yes in him. That is why it is through him that we utter our Amen
to God for his glory.
2Co 1:21 And it is God who establishes us with you in Christ, and has anointed us,
2Co 1:22 and who has also put his seal on us and given us his Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee.
2Co 1:23 But I call God to witness against me- it was to spare you that I refrained from coming again to Corinth.
2Co 1:24 Not that we lord it over your faith, but we work with you for your joy, for you stand firm in your faith.
2Co 2:1 For I made up my mind not to make another painful visit to you.
2Co 2:2
2Co 2:3 For if I cause you pain, who is there to make me glad but the one whom I have pained?
2Co 2:4 And I wrote as I did, so that when I came I might not suffer pain from those who should have made me
rejoice, for I felt sure of all of you, that my joy would be the joy of you all.
2Co 2:5 For I wrote to you out of much affliction and anguish of heart and with many tears, not to cause you
pain but to let you know the abundant love that I have for you.
2Co 2:6 Now if anyone has caused pain, he has caused it not to me, but in some measure- not to put it too
severely- to all of you.
2Co 2:7 For such a one, this punishment by the majority is enough,
2Co 2:8 so you should rather turn to forgive and comfort him, or he may be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow.
2Co 2:9 So I beg you to reaffirm your love for him.
2Co 2:10 For this is why I wrote, that I might test you and know whether you are obedient in everything.
2Co 2:11 Anyone whom you forgive, I also forgive. What I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, has been
for your sake in the presence of Christ,
2Co 2:12 so that we would not be outwitted by Satan; for we are not ignorant of his designs.
2Co 2:13 When I came to Troas to preach the gospel of Christ, even though a door was opened for me in the
Lord,
2Co 2:14 my spirit was not at rest because I did not find my brother Titus there. So I took leave of them and
went on to Macedonia.
2Co 2:15 But thanks be to God, who in Christ always leads us in triumphal procession, and through us spreads
the fragrance of the knowledge of him everywhere.
2Co 2:16 For we are the aroma of Christ to God among those who are being saved and among those who are
perishing,
2Co 2:17 to one a fragrance from death to death, to the other a fragrance from life to life. Who is sufficient for
these things?
2Co 2:18 For we are not, like so many, peddlers of God's word, but as men of sincerity, as commissioned by
God, in the sight of God we speak in Christ.
2Co 3:1 Are we beginning to commend ourselves again? Or do we need, as some do, letters of
recommendation to you, or from you?
2Co 3:2 You yourselves are our letter of recommendation, written on our hearts, to be known and read by all.
2Co 3:3 And you show that you are a letter from Christ delivered by us, written not with ink but with the Spirit of
the living God, not on tablets of stone but on tablets of human hearts.
2Co 3:4 Such is the confidence that we have through Christ toward God.
2Co 3:5 Not that we are sufficient in ourselves to claim anything as coming from us, but our sufficiency is from
God,2Co 3:6 who has made us competent to be ministers of a new covenant, not of the letter but of the Spirit. For
the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life.
2Co 3:7 Now if the ministry of death, carved in letters on stone, came with such glory that the Israelites could
not gaze at Moses' face because of its glory, which was being brought to an end,
2Co 3:8 will not the ministry of the Spirit have even more glory?
2Co 3:9 For if there was glory in the ministry of condemnation, the ministry of righteousness must far exceed it
in glory.
2Co 3:10 Indeed, in this case, what once had glory has come to have no glory at all, because of the glory that
surpasses it.
2Co 3:11 For if what was being brought to an end came with glory, much more will what is permanent have
glory.
2Co 3:12 Since we have such a hope, we are very bold,
2Co 3:13 not like Moses, who would put a veil over his face so that the Israelites might not gaze at the outcome
of what was being brought to an end.
2Co 3:14 But their minds were hardened. For to this day, when they read the old covenant, that same veil
remains unlifted, because only through Christ is it taken away.
2Co 3:15 Yes, to this day whenever Moses is read a veil lies over their hearts.
2Co 3:16 But when one turns to the Lord, the veil is removed.
2Co 3:17 Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.
2Co 3:18 And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same
image from one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit.
2Co 4:1 Therefore, having this ministry by the mercy of God, we do not lose heart.
2Co 4:2 But we have renounced disgraceful, underhanded ways. We refuse to practice cunning or to tamper
with God's word, but by the open statement of the truth we would commend ourselves to everyone's conscience
in the sight of God.
2Co 4:3 And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled only to those who are perishing.
2Co 4:4 In their case the god of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing
the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God.
2Co 4:5 For what we proclaim is not ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord, with ourselves as your servants for
Jesus' sake.
2Co 4:6 For God, who said, "Let light shine out of darkness," has shone in our hearts to give the light of the
knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
2Co 4:7 But we have this treasure in jars of clay, to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to
us.
2Co 4:8 We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed; perplexed, but not driven to despair;
2Co 4:9 persecuted, but not forsaken; struck down, but not destroyed;
2Co 4:10 always carrying in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our
bodies.
2Co 4:11 For we who live are always being given over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also
may be manifested in our mortal flesh.
2Co 4:12 So death is at work in us, but life in you.
2Co 4:13 Since we have the same spirit of faith according to what has been written, "I believed, and so I spoke,"
we also believe, and so we also speak,
2Co 4:14 knowing that he who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus and bring us with you into his
presence.
2Co 4:15 For it is all for your sake, so that as grace extends to more and more people it may increase
thanksgiving, to the glory of God.
2Co 4:16 So we do not lose heart. Though our outer nature is wasting away, our inner nature is being renewed
day by day.
2Co 4:17 For this slight momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all
comparison,
2Co 4:18 as we look not to the things that are seen but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are
seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal.
2Co 5:1 For we know that if the tent, which is our earthly home, is destroyed, we have a building from God, a
house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.
2Co 5:2 For in this tent we groan, longing to put on our heavenly dwelling,
2Co 5:3 if indeed by putting it on we may not be found naked.
2Co 5:4 For while we are still in this tent, we groan, being burdened--not that we would be unclothed, but that
we would be further clothed, so that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life.2Co 5:5 He who has prepared us for this very thing is God, who has given us the Spirit as a guarantee.
2Co 5:6 So we are always of good courage. We know that while we are at home in the body we are away from
the Lord,
2Co 5:7 for we walk by faith, not by sight.
2Co 5:8 Yes, we are of good courage, and we would rather be away from the body and at home with the Lord.
2Co 5:9 So whether we are at home or away, we make it our aim to please him.
2Co 5:10 For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due
for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil.
2Co 5:11 Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade others. But what we are is known to God, and I
hope it is known also to your conscience.
2Co 5:12 We are not commending ourselves to you again but giving you cause to boast about us, so that you
may be able to answer those who boast about outward appearance and not about what is in the heart.
2Co 5:13 For if we are beside ourselves, it is for God; if we are in our right mind, it is for you.
2Co 5:14 For the love of Christ controls us, because we have concluded this: that one has died for all, therefore
all have died;
2Co 5:15 and he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for themselves but for him who for their
sake died and was raised.
2Co 5:16 From now on, therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we once regarded
Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer.
2Co 5:17 Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away; behold, the new has
come.
2Co 5:18 All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of
reconciliation;
2Co 5:19 that is, in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them,
and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation.
2Co 5:20 Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, God making his appeal through us. We implore you on
behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God.
2Co 5:21 For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the
righteousness of God.
2Co 6:1 Working together with him, then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God in vain.
2Co 6:2 For he says, "In a favorable time I listened to you, and in a day of salvation I have helped you." Behold,
now is the favorable time; behold, now is the day of salvation.
2Co 6:3 We put no obstacle in anyone's way, so that no fault may be found with our ministry,
2Co 6:4 but as servants of God we commend ourselves in every way: by great endurance, in afflictions,
hardships, calamities,
2Co 6:5 beatings, imprisonments, riots, labors, sleepless nights, hunger;
2Co 6:6 by purity, knowledge, patience, kindness, the Holy Spirit, genuine love,
2Co 6:7 by truthful speech, and the power of God; with the weapons of righteousness for the right hand and for
the left;
2Co 6:8 through honor and dishonor, through slander and praise. We are treated as impostors, and yet are true;
2Co 6:9 as unknown, and yet well known; as dying, and behold, we live; as punished, and yet not killed;
2Co 6:10 as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing, yet possessing
everything.
2Co 6:11 We have spoken freely to you, Corinthians; our heart is wide open.
2Co 6:12 You are not restricted by us, but you are restricted in your own affections.
2Co 6:13 In return (I speak as to children) widen your hearts also.
2Co 6:14 Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership has righteousness with
lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness?
2Co 6:15 What accord has Christ with Belial? Or what portion does a believer share with an unbeliever?
2Co 6:16 What agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God; as God
said, "I will make my dwelling among them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my
people.
2Co 6:17 Therefore go out from their midst, and be separate from them, says the Lord, and touch no unclean
thing; then I will welcome you,
2Co 6:18 and I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty."
2Co 7:1 Since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and
spirit, bringing holiness to completion in the fear of God.
2Co 7:2 Make room in your hearts for us. We have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, we have taken
advantage of no one.2Co 7:3 I do not say this to condemn you, for I said before that you are in our hearts, to die together and to live
together.
2Co 7:4 I am acting with great boldness toward you; I have great pride in you; I am filled with comfort. In all our
affliction, I am overflowing with joy.
2Co 7:5 For even when we came into Macedonia, our bodies had no rest, but we were afflicted at every turnfighting without and fear within.
2Co 7:6 But God, who comforts the downcast, comforted us by the coming of Titus,
2Co 7:7 and not only by his coming but also by the comfort with which he was comforted by you, as he told us
of your longing, your mourning, your zeal for me, so that I rejoiced still more.
2Co 7:8 For even if I made you grieve with my letter, I do not regret it- though I did regret it, for I see that that
letter grieved you, though only for a while.
2Co 7:9 As it is, I rejoice, not because you were grieved, but because you were grieved into repenting. For you
felt a godly grief, so that you suffered no loss through us.
2Co 7:10 For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret, whereas worldly grief
produces death.
2Co 7:11 For see what earnestness this godly grief has produced in you, but also what eagerness to clear
yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what longing, what zeal, what punishment! At every point you have
proved yourselves innocent in the matter.
2Co 7:12 So although I wrote to you, it was not for the sake of the one who did the wrong, nor for the sake of
the one who suffered the wrong, but in order that your earnestness for us might be revealed to you in the sight of
God.
2Co 7:13 Therefore we are comforted. And besides our own comfort, we rejoiced still more at the joy of Titus,
because his spirit has been refreshed by you all.
2Co 7:14 For whatever boasts I made to him about you, I was not put to shame. But just as everything we said
to you was true, so also our boasting before Titus has proved true.
2Co 7:15 And his affection for you is even greater, as he remembers the obedience of you all, how you received
him with fear and trembling.
2Co 7:16 I rejoice, because I have perfect confidence in you.
2Co 8:1 We want you to know, brothers, about the grace of God that has been given among the churches of
Macedonia,
2Co 8:2 for in a severe test of affliction, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a
wealth of generosity on their part.
2Co 8:3 For they gave according to their means, as I can testify, and beyond their means, of their own free will,
2Co 8:4 begging us earnestly for the favor of taking part in the relief of the saints-
2Co 8:5 and this, not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord and then by the will of God to
us.
2Co 8:6 Accordingly, we urged Titus that as he had started, so he should complete among you this act of grace.
2Co 8:7 But as you excel in everything- in faith, in speech, in knowledge, in all earnestness, and in our love for
you- see that you excel in this act of grace also.
2Co 8:8 I say this not as a command, but to prove by the earnestness of others that your love also is genuine.
2Co 8:9 For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became
poor, so that you by his poverty might become rich.
2Co 8:10 And in this matter I give my judgment: this benefits you, who a year ago started not only to do this
work but also to desire to do it.
2Co 8:11 So now finish doing it as well, so that your readiness in desiring it may be matched by your completing
it out of what you have.
2Co 8:12 For if the readiness is there, it is acceptable according to what a person has, not according to what he
does not have.
2Co 8:13 I do not mean that others should be eased and you burdened, but that as a matter of fairness
2Co 8:14 your abundance at the present time should supply their need, so that their abundance may supply
your need, that there may be fairness.
2Co 8:15 As it is written, "Whoever gathered much had nothing left over, and whoever gathered little had no
lack."
2Co 8:16 But thanks be to God, who put into the heart of Titus the same earnest care I have for you.
2Co 8:17 For he not only accepted our appeal, but being himself very earnest he is going to you of his own
accord.
2Co 8:18 With him we are sending the brother who is famous among all the churches for his preaching of the
gospel.
2Co 8:19 And not only that, but he has been appointed by the churches to travel with us as we carry out this actof grace that is being ministered by us, for the glory of the Lord himself and to show our good will.
2Co 8:20 We take this course so that no one should blame us about this generous gift that is being
administered by us,
2Co 8:21 for we aim at what is honorable not only in the Lord's sight but also in the sight of man.
2Co 8:22 And with them we are sending our brother whom we have often tested and found earnest in many
matters, but who is now more earnest than ever because of his great confidence in you.
2Co 8:23 As for Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker for your benefit. And as for our brothers, they are
messengers of the churches, the glory of Christ.
2Co 8:24 So give proof before the churches of your love and of our boasting about you to these men.
2Co 9:1 Now it is superfluous for me to write to you about the ministry for the saints,
2Co 9:2 for I know your readiness, of which I boast about you to the people of Macedonia, saying that Achaia
has been ready since last year. And your zeal has stirred up most of them.
2Co 9:3 But I am sending the brothers so that our boasting about you may not prove vain in this matter, so that
you may be ready, as I said you would be.
2Co 9:4 Otherwise, if some Macedonians come with me and find that you are not ready, we would be
humiliated- to say nothing of you- for being so confident.
2Co 9:5 So I thought it necessary to urge the brothers to go on ahead to you and arrange in advance for the gift
you have promised, so that it may be ready as a willing gift, not as an exaction.
2Co 9:6 The point is this: whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will
also reap bountifully.
2Co 9:7 Each one must give as he has made up his mind, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a
cheerful giver.
2Co 9:8 And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that having all contentment in all things at all
times, you may abound in every good work.
2Co 9:9 As it is written, "He has distributed freely, he has given to the poor; his righteousness endures forever."
2Co 9:10 He who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing
and increase the harvest of your righteousness.
2Co 9:11 You will be enriched in every way for all your generosity, which through us will produce thanksgiving to
God.
2Co 9:12 For the ministry of this service is not only supplying the needs of the saints, but is also overflowing in
many thanksgivings to God.
2Co 9:13 By their approval of this service, they will glorify God because of your submission flowing from your
confession of the gospel of Christ, and the generosity of your contribution for them and for all others,
2Co 9:14 while they long for you and pray for you, because of the surpassing grace of God upon you.
2Co 9:15 Thanks be to God for his inexpressible gift!
2Co 10:1 I, Paul, myself entreat you, by the meekness and gentleness of Christ- I who am humble when face to
face with you, but bold toward you when I am away!-
2Co 10:2 I beg of you that when I am present I may not have to show boldness with such confidence as I count
on showing against some who suspect us of walking according to the flesh.
2Co 10:3 For though we walk in the flesh, we are not waging war according to the flesh.
2Co 10:4 For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh but have divine power to destroy strongholds. We
destroy arguments
2Co 10:5 and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to obey
Christ,
2Co 10:6 being ready to punish every disobedience, when your obedience is complete.
2Co 10:7 Look at what is before your eyes. If anyone is confident that he is Christ's, let him remind himself that
just as he is Christ's, so also are we.
2Co 10:8 For even if I boast a little too much of our authority, which the Lord gave for building you up and not for
destroying you, I will not be ashamed.
2Co 10:9 I do not want to appear to be frightening you with my letters.
2Co 10:10 For they say, "His letters are weighty and strong, but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech of
no account."
2Co 10:11 Let such a person understand that what we say by letter when absent, we do when present.
2Co 10:12 Not that we dare to classify or compare ourselves with some of those who are commending
themselves. But when they measure themselves by one another and compare themselves with one another,
they are without understanding.
2Co 10:13 But we will not boast beyond limits, but will boast only with regard to the area of influence God
assigned to us, to reach even to you.
2Co 10:14 For we are not overextending ourselves, as though we did not reach you. We were the first to comeall the way to you with the gospel of Christ.
2Co 10:15 We do not boast beyond limit in the labors of others. But our hope is that as your faith increases, our
area of influence among you may be greatly enlarged,
2Co 10:16 so that we may preach the gospel in lands beyond you, without boasting of work already done in
another's area of influence.
2Co 10:17 "Let the one who boasts, boast in the Lord."
2Co 10:18 For it is not the one who commends himself who is approved, but the one whom the Lord
commends.
2Co 11:1 I wish you would bear with me in a little foolishness. Do bear with me!
2Co 11:2 I feel a divine jealousy for you, for I betrothed you to one husband, to present you as a pure virgin to
Christ.
2Co 11:3 But I am afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his cunning, your thoughts will be led astray from
a sincere and pure devotion to Christ.
2Co 11:4 For if someone comes and proclaims another Jesus than the one we proclaimed, or if you receive a
different spirit from the one you received, or if you accept a different gospel from the one you accepted, you put
up with it readily enough.
2Co 11:5 I consider that I am not in the least inferior to these super-apostles.
2Co 11:6 Even if I am unskilled in speaking, I am not so in knowledge; indeed, in every way we have made this
plain to you in all things.
2Co 11:7 Or did I commit a sin in humbling myself so that you might be exalted, because I preached God's
gospel to you free of charge?
2Co 11:8 I robbed other churches by accepting support from them in order to serve you.
2Co 11:9 And when I was with you and was in need, I did not burden anyone, for the brothers who came from
Macedonia supplied my need. So I refrained and will refrain from burdening you in any way.
2Co 11:10 As the truth of Christ is in me, this boasting of mine will not be silenced in the regions of Achaia.
2Co 11:11 And why? Because I do not love you? God knows I do!
2Co 11:12 And what I do I will continue to do, in order to undermine the claim of those who would like to claim
that in their boasted mission they work on the same terms as we do.
2Co 11:13 For such men are false apostles, deceitful workmen, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ.
2Co 11:14 And no wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light.
2Co 11:15 So it is no surprise if his servants, also, disguise themselves as servants of righteousness. Their end
will correspond to their deeds.
2Co 11:16 I repeat, let no one think me foolish. But even if you do, accept me as a fool, so that I too may boast
a little.
2Co 11:17 What I am saying with this boastful confidence, I say not with the Lord's authority but as a fool.
2Co 11:18 Since many boast according to the flesh, I too will boast.
2Co 11:19 For you gladly bear with fools, being wise yourselves!
2Co 11:20 For you bear it if someone makes slaves of you, or devours you, or takes advantage of you, or puts
on airs, or strikes you in the face.
2Co 11:21 To my shame, I must say, we were too weak for that! But whatever anyone else dares to boast of- I
am speaking as a fool- I also dare to boast of that.
2Co 11:22 Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they offspring of Abraham? So am I.
2Co 11:23 Are they servants of Christ? I am a better one- I am talking like a madman- with far greater labors, far
more imprisonments, with countless beatings, and often near death.
2Co 11:24 Five times I received at the hands of the Jews the forty lashes less one.
2Co 11:25 Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned. Three times I was shipwrecked; a night and
a day I was adrift at sea;
2Co 11:26 on frequent journeys, in danger from rivers, danger from robbers, danger from my own people,
danger from Gentiles, danger in the city, danger in the wilderness, danger at sea, danger from false brothers;
2Co 11:27 in toil and hardship, through many a sleepless night, in hunger and thirst, often without food, in cold
and exposure.
2Co 11:28 And, apart from other things, there is the daily pressure on me of my anxiety for all the churches.
2Co 11:29 Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is made to fall, and I am not indignant?
2Co 11:30 If I must boast, I will boast of the things that show my weakness.
2Co 11:31 The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, he who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying.
2Co 11:32 At Damascus, the governor under King Aretas was guarding the city of Damascus in order to seize
me,
2Co 11:33 but I was let down in a basket through a window in the wall and escaped his hands.
2Co 12:1 I must go on boasting. Though there is nothing to be gained by it, I will go on to visions andrevelations of the Lord.
2Co 12:2 I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven- whether in the body
or out of the body I do not know, God knows.
2Co 12:3 And I know that this man was caught up into paradise- whether in the body or out of the body I do not
know, God knows-
2Co 12:4 and he heard things that cannot be told, which man may not utter.
2Co 12:5 On behalf of this man I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast, except of my weaknesses.
2Co 12:6 Though if I should wish to boast, I would not be a fool, for I would be speaking the truth. But I refrain
from it, so that no one may think more of me than he sees in me or hears from me.
2Co 12:7 So to keep me from being too elated by the surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given
me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from being too elated.
2Co 12:8 Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me.
2Co 12:9 But he said to me, "My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness."
Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me.
2Co 12:10 For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and
calamities. For when I am weak, then I am strong.
2Co 12:11 I have been a fool! You forced me to it, for I ought to have been commended by you. For I was not at
all inferior to these super-apostles, even though I am nothing.
2Co 12:12 The signs of a true apostle were performed among you with utmost patience, with signs and wonders
and mighty works.
2Co 12:13 For in what were you less favored than the rest of the churches, except that I myself did not burden
you? Forgive me this wrong!
2Co 12:14 Here for the third time I am ready to come to you. And I will not be a burden, for I seek not what is
yours but you. For children are not obligated to save up for their parents, but parents for their children.
2Co 12:15 I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls. If I love you more, am I to be loved less?
2Co 12:16 But granting that I myself did not burden you, I was crafty, you say, and got the better of you by
deceit.
2Co 12:17 Did I take advantage of you through any of those whom I sent to you?
2Co 12:18 I urged Titus to go, and sent the brother with him. Did Titus take advantage of you? Did we not act in
the same spirit? Did we not take the same steps?
2Co 12:19 Have you been thinking all along that we have been defending ourselves to you? It is in the sight of
God that we have been speaking in Christ, and all for your upbuilding, beloved.
2Co 12:20 For I fear that perhaps when I come I may find you not as I wish, and that you may find me not as
you wish- that perhaps there may be quarreling, jealousy, anger, hostility, slander, gossip, conceit, and disorder.
2Co 12:21 I fear that when I come again my God may humble me before you, and I may have to mourn over
many of those who sinned earlier and have not repented of the impurity, sexual immorality, and sensuality that
they have practiced.
2Co 13:1 This is the third time I am coming to you. Every charge must be established by the evidence of two or
three witnesses.
2Co 13:2 I warned those who sinned before and all the others, and I warn them now while absent, as I did when
present on my second visit, that if I come again I will not spare them-
2Co 13:3 since you seek proof that Christ is speaking in me. He is not weak in dealing with you, but is powerful
among you.
2Co 13:4 For he was crucified in weakness, but lives by the power of God. For we also are weak in him, but in
dealing with you we will live with him by the power of God.
2Co 13:5 Examine yourselves, to see whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Or do you not realize this
about yourselves, that Jesus Christ is in you?- unless indeed you fail to meet the test!
2Co 13:6 I hope you will find out that we have not failed the test.
2Co 13:7 But we pray to God that you may not do wrong- not that we may appear to have met the test, but that
you may do what is right, though we may seem to have failed.
2Co 13:8 For we cannot do anything against the truth, but only for the truth.
2Co 13:9 For we are glad when we are weak and you are strong. Your restoration is what we pray for.
2Co 13:10 For this reason I write these things while I am away from you, that when I come I may not have to be
severe in my use of the authority that the Lord has given me for building up and not for tearing down.
2Co 13:11 Finally, brothers, rejoice. Aim for restoration, comfort one another, agree with one another, live in
peace; and the God of love and peace will be with you.
2Co 13:12 Greet one another with a holy kiss.
2Co 13:13 All the saints greet you.
2Co 13:14 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be withyou all.
Gal 1:1 Paul, an apostle- not from men nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who
raised him from the deadGal 1:2 and all the brothers who are with me, To the churches of Galatia:
Gal 1:3 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ,
Gal 1:4 who gave himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age, according to the will of our God
and Father,
Gal 1:5 to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
Gal 1:6 I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are
turning to a different gospelGal 1:7 not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of
Christ.
Gal 1:8 But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preached
to you, let him be accursed.
Gal 1:9 As we have said before, so now I say again: If anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one
you received, let him be accursed.
Gal 1:10 For am I now seeking the approval of man, or of God? Or am I trying to please man? If I were still
trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ.
Gal 1:11 For I would have you know, brothers, that the gospel that was preached by me is not man's gospel.
Gal 1:12 For I did not receive it from any man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus
Christ.
Gal 1:13 For you have heard of my former life in Judaism, how I persecuted the church of God violently and
tried to destroy it.
Gal 1:14 And I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people, so extremely zealous
was I for the traditions of my fathers.
Gal 1:15 But when he who had set me apart before I was born, and who called me by his grace,
Gal 1:16 was pleased to reveal his Son to me, in order that I might preach him among the Gentiles, I did not
immediately consult with anyone;
Gal 1:17 nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away into Arabia, and
returned again to Damascus.
Gal 1:18 Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas and remained with him fifteen days.
Gal 1:19 But I saw none of the other apostles except James the Lord's brother.
Gal 1:20 (In what I am writing to you, before God, I do not lie!)
Gal 1:21 Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
Gal 1:22 And I was still unknown in person to the churches of Judea that are in Christ.
Gal 1:23 They only were hearing it said, "He who used to persecute us is now preaching the faith he once tried
to destroy."
Gal 1:24 And they glorified God because of me.
Gal 2:1 Then after fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus along with me.
Gal 2:2 I went up because of a revelation and set before them (though privately before those who seemed
influential) the gospel that I proclaim among the Gentiles, in order to make sure I was not running or had not run
in vain.
Gal 2:3 But even Titus, who was with me, was not forced to be circumcised, though he was a Greek.
Gal 2:4 Yet because of false brothers secretly brought in- who slipped in to spy out our freedom that we have in
Christ Jesus, so that they might bring us into slaveryGal 2:5 to them we did not yield in submission even for a moment, so that the truth of the gospel might be
preserved for you.
Gal 2:6 And from those who seemed to be influential (what they were makes no difference to me; God shows no
partiality)- those, I say, who seemed influential added nothing to me.
Gal 2:7 On the contrary, when they saw that I had been entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcised, just as
Peter had been entrusted with the gospel to the circumcised
Gal 2:8 (for he who worked through Peter for his apostolic ministry to the circumcised worked also through me
for mine to the Gentiles),
Gal 2:9 and when James and Cephas and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that was given
to me, they gave the right hand of fellowship to Barnabas and me, that we should go to the Gentiles and they to
the circumcised.
Gal 2:10 Only, they asked us to remember the poor, the very thing I was eager to do.
Gal 2:11 But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face, because he stood condemned.
Gal 2:12 For before certain men came from James, he was eating with the Gentiles; but when they came hedrew back and separated himself, fearing the circumcision party.
Gal 2:13 And the rest of the Jews acted hypocritically along with him, so that even Barnabas was led astray by
their hypocrisy.
Gal 2:14 But when I saw that their conduct was not in step with the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas before
them all, "If you, though a Jew, live like a Gentile and not like a Jew, how can you force the Gentiles to live like
Jews?"
Gal 2:15 We ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners;
Gal 2:16 yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we
also have believed in Christ Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because
by works of the law no one will be justified.
Gal 2:17 But if, in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too were found to be sinners, is Christ then a servant
of sin? Certainly not!
Gal 2:18 For if I rebuild what I tore down, I prove myself to be a transgressor.
Gal 2:19 For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God. I have been crucified with Christ.
Gal 2:20 It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in
the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
Gal 2:21 I do not nullify the grace of God, for if justification were through the law, then Christ died for no
purpose.
Gal 3:1 O foolish Galatians! Who has bewitched you? It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly
portrayed as crucified.
Gal 3:2 Let me ask you only this: Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith?
Gal 3:3 Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh?
Gal 3:4 Did you suffer so many things in vain- if indeed it was in vain?
Gal 3:5 Does he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you do so by works of the law, or by
hearing with faithGal 3:6 just as Abraham "believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness"?
Gal 3:7 Know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of Abraham.
Gal 3:8 And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel
beforehand to Abraham, saying, "In you shall all the nations be blessed."
Gal 3:9 So then, those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith.
Gal 3:10 For all who rely on works of the law are under a curse; for it is written, "Cursed be everyone who does
not abide by all things written in the Book of the Law, and do them."
Gal 3:11 Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by the law, for "The righteous shall live by faith."
Gal 3:12 But the law is not of faith, rather "The one who does them shall live by them."
Gal 3:13 Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us- for it is written, "Cursed is
everyone who is hanged on a tree"-
Gal 3:14 so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive
the promised Spirit through faith.
Gal 3:15 To give a human example, brothers: even with a man-made covenant, no one annuls it or adds to it
once it has been ratified.
Gal 3:16 Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. It does not say, "And to offsprings,"
referring to many, but referring to one, "And to your offspring," who is Christ.
Gal 3:17 This is what I mean: the law, which came 430 years afterward, does not annul a covenant previously
ratified by God, so as to make the promise void.
Gal 3:18 For if the inheritance comes by the law, it no longer comes by promise; but God gave it to Abraham by
a promise.
Gal 3:19 Why then the law? It was added because of transgressions, until the offspring should come to whom
the promise had been made, and it was put in place through angels by an intermediary.
Gal 3:20 Now an intermediary implies more than one, but God is one.
Gal 3:21 Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? Certainly not! For if a law had been given that could
give life, then righteousness would indeed be by the law.
Gal 3:22 But the Scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be
given to those who believe.
Gal 3:23 Now before faith came, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be
revealed.
Gal 3:24 So then, the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be justified by faith.
Gal 3:25 But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian,
Gal 3:26 for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith.
Gal 3:27 For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.Gal 3:28 There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is neither male nor female, for you
are all one in Christ Jesus.
Gal 3:29 And if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to promise.
Gal 4:1 I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child, is no different from a slave, though he is the owner of
everything,
Gal 4:2 but he is under guardians and managers until the date set by his father.
Gal 4:3 In the same way we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles of the
world.
Gal 4:4 But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law,
Gal 4:5 to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons.
Gal 4:6 And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, "Abba! Father!"
Gal 4:7 So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God.
Gal 4:8 Formerly, when you did not know God, you were enslaved to those that by nature are not gods.
Gal 4:9 But now that you have come to know God, or rather to be known by God, how can you turn back again
to the weak and worthless elementary principles of the world, whose slaves you want to be once more?
Gal 4:10 You observe days and months and seasons and years!
Gal 4:11 I am afraid I may have labored over you in vain.
Gal 4:12 Brothers, I entreat you, become as I am, for I also have become as you are. You did me no wrong.
Gal 4:13 You know it was because of a bodily ailment that I preached the gospel to you at first,
Gal 4:14 and though my condition was a trial to you, you did not scorn or despise me, but received me as an
angel of God, as Christ Jesus.
Gal 4:15 What then has become of the blessing you felt? For I testify to you that, if possible, you would have
gouged out your eyes and given them to me.
Gal 4:16 Have I then become your enemy by telling you the truth?
Gal 4:17 They make much of you, but for no good purpose. They want to shut you out, that you may make
much of them.
Gal 4:18 It is always good to be made much of for a good purpose, and not only when I am present with you,
Gal 4:19 my little children, for whom I am again in the anguish of childbirth until Christ is formed in you!
Gal 4:20 I wish I could be present with you now and change my tone, for I am perplexed about you.
Gal 4:21 Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not listen to the law?
Gal 4:22 For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by a slave woman and one by a free woman.
Gal 4:23 But the son of the slave was born according to the flesh, while the son of the free woman was born
through promise.
Gal 4:24 Now this may be interpreted allegorically: these women are two covenants. One is from Mount Sinai,
bearing children for slavery; she is Hagar.
Gal 4:25 Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia; she corresponds to the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery
with her children.
Gal 4:26 But the Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother.
Gal 4:27 For it is written, "Rejoice, O barren one who does not bear; break forth and cry aloud, you who are not
in labor! For the children of the desolate one will be more than those of the one who has a husband."
Gal 4:28 Now you, brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise.
Gal 4:29 But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born
according to the Spirit, so also it is now.
Gal 4:30 But what does the Scripture say? "Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the slave
woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman."
Gal 4:31 So, brothers, we are not children of the slave but of the free woman.
Gal 5:1 For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery.
Gal 5:2 Look: I, Paul, say to you that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you.
Gal 5:3 I testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole law.
Gal 5:4 You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by the law; you have fallen away from grace.
Gal 5:5 For through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness.
Gal 5:6 For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith working
through love.
Gal 5:7 You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth?
Gal 5:8 This persuasion is not from him who calls you.
Gal 5:9 A little leaven leavens the whole lump.
Gal 5:10 I have confidence in the Lord that you will take no other view than mine, and the one who is troubling
you will bear the penalty, whoever he is.
Gal 5:11 But if I, brothers, still preach circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? In that case the offense ofthe cross has been removed.
Gal 5:12 I wish those who unsettle you would emasculate themselves!
Gal 5:13 For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh,
but through love serve one another.
Gal 5:14 For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: "You shall love your neighbor as yourself."
Gal 5:15 But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed by one another.
Gal 5:16 But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh.
Gal 5:17 For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for
these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do.
Gal 5:18 But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.
Gal 5:19 Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality,
Gal 5:20 idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions,
Gal 5:21 envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who
do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
Gal 5:22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness,
Gal 5:23 gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law.
Gal 5:24 And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.
Gal 5:25 If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit.
Gal 5:26 Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another.
Gal 6:1 Brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of
gentleness. Keep watch on yourself, lest you too be tempted.
Gal 6:2 Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ.
Gal 6:3 For if anyone thinks he is something, when he is nothing, he deceives himself.
Gal 6:4 But let each one test his own work, and then his reason to boast will be in himself alone and not in his
neighbor.
Gal 6:5 For each will have to bear his own load.
Gal 6:6 One who is taught the word must share all good things with the one who teaches.
Gal 6:7 Do not be deceived: God is not mocked, for whatever one sows, that will he also reap.
Gal 6:8 For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the
Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life.
Gal 6:9 And let us not grow weary of doing good, for in due season we will reap, if we do not give up.
Gal 6:10 So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the
household of faith.
Gal 6:11 See with what large letters I am writing to you with my own hand.
Gal 6:12 It is those who want to make a good showing in the flesh who would force you to be circumcised, and
only in order that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ.
Gal 6:13 For even those who are circumcised do not themselves keep the law, but they desire to have you
circumcised that they may boast in your flesh.
Gal 6:14 But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has
been crucified to me, and I to the world.
Gal 6:15 For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation.
Gal 6:16 And as for all who walk by this rule, peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the Israel of God.
Gal 6:17 From now on let no one cause me trouble, for I bear on my body the marks of Jesus.
Gal 6:18 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers. Amen.
Eph 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, To the saints who are in Ephesus, and are faithful in
Christ Jesus:
Eph 1:2 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Eph 1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every
spiritual blessing in the heavenly places,
Eph 1:4 even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless
before him. In love
Eph 1:5 he predestined us for adoption through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will,
Eph 1:6 to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the Beloved.
Eph 1:7 In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches
of his grace,
Eph 1:8 which he lavished upon us, in all wisdom and insight
Eph 1:9 making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ
Eph 1:10 as a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth.
Eph 1:11 In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him whoworks all things according to the counsel of his will,
Eph 1:12 so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory.
Eph 1:13 In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him,
were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit,
Eph 1:14 who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory.
Eph 1:15 For this reason, because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the
saints,
Eph 1:16 I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers,
Eph 1:17 that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of
revelation in the knowledge of him,
Eph 1:18 having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has
called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints,
Eph 1:19 and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working
of his great might
Eph 1:20 that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the
heavenly places,
Eph 1:21 far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named, not
only in this age but also in the one to come.
Eph 1:22 And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church,
Eph 1:23 which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all.
Eph 2:1 And you were dead in the trespasses and sins
Eph 2:2 in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air,
the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedienceEph 2:3 among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the
mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind.
Eph 2:4 But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us,
Eph 2:5 even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ- by grace you have
been savedEph 2:6 and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus,
Eph 2:7 so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us
in Christ Jesus.
Eph 2:8 For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God,
Eph 2:9 not a result of works, so that no one may boast.
Eph 2:10 For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand,
that we should walk in them.
Eph 2:11 Therefore remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh, called "the uncircumcision" by what is
called the circumcision, which is made in the flesh by handsEph 2:12 remember that you were at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of
Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world.
Eph 2:13 But now in Christ Jesus you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ.
Eph 2:14 For he himself is our peace, who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing
wall of hostility
Eph 2:15 by abolishing the law of commandments and ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man
in place of the two, so making peace,
Eph 2:16 and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility.
Eph 2:17 And he came and preached peace to you who were far off and peace to those who were near.
Eph 2:18 For through him we both have access in one Spirit to the Father.
Eph 2:19 So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and
members of the household of God,
Eph 2:20 built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone,
Eph 2:21 in whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord.
Eph 2:22 In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit.
Eph 3:1 For this reason I, Paul, a prisoner for Christ Jesus on behalf of you GentilesEph 3:2 assuming that you have heard of the stewardship of God's grace that was given to me for you,
Eph 3:3 how the mystery was made known to me by revelation, as I have written briefly.
Eph 3:4 When you read this, you can perceive my insight into the mystery of Christ,
Eph 3:5 which was not made known to the sons of men in other generations as it has now been revealed to his
holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit.
Eph 3:6 This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body, and partakers of thepromise in Christ Jesus through the gospel.
Eph 3:7 Of this gospel I was made a minister according to the gift of God's grace, which was given me by the
working of his power.
Eph 3:8 To me, though I am the very least of all the saints, this grace was given, to preach to the Gentiles the
unsearchable riches of Christ,
Eph 3:9 and to bring to light for everyone what is the plan of the mystery hidden for ages in God who created all
things,
Eph 3:10 so that through the church the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known to the rulers and
authorities in the heavenly places.
Eph 3:11 This was according to the eternal purpose that he has realized in Christ Jesus our Lord,
Eph 3:12 in whom we have boldness and access with confidence through our faith in him.
Eph 3:13 So I ask you not to lose heart over what I am suffering for you, which is your glory.
Eph 3:14 For this reason I bow my knees before the Father,
Eph 3:15 from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named,
Eph 3:16 that according to the riches of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his
Spirit in your inner being,
Eph 3:17 so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith- that you, being rooted and grounded in love,
Eph 3:18 may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and
depth,
Eph 3:19 and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of
God.
Eph 3:20 Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think, according to the power
at work within us,
Eph 3:21 to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen.
Eph 4:1 I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have
been called,
Eph 4:2 with all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love,
Eph 4:3 eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
Eph 4:4 There is one body and one Spirit- just as you were called to the one hope that belongs to your callEph 4:5 one Lord, one faith, one baptism,
Eph 4:6 one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all.
Eph 4:7 But grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ's gift.
Eph 4:8 Therefore it says, "When he ascended on high he led a host of captives, and he gave gifts to men."
Eph 4:9 ( In saying, "He ascended," what does it mean but that he had also descended into the lower parts of
the earth?
Eph 4:10 He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all
things.)
Eph 4:11 And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the pastors and teachers,
Eph 4:12 to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ,
Eph 4:13 until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood,
to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ,
Eph 4:14 so that we may no longer be children, tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind
of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness in deceitful schemes.
Eph 4:15 Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into
Christ,
Eph 4:16 from whom the whole body, joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when
each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love.
Eph 4:17 Now this I say and testify in the Lord, that you must no longer walk as the Gentiles do, in the futility of
their minds.
Eph 4:18 They are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that
is in them, due to their hardness of heart.
Eph 4:19 They have become callous and have given themselves up to sensuality, greedy to practice every kind
of impurity.
Eph 4:20 But that is not the way you learned Christ!-
Eph 4:21 assuming that you have heard about him and were taught in him, as the truth is in Jesus,
Eph 4:22 to put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful
desires,
Eph 4:23 and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds,
Eph 4:24 and to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness.Eph 4:25 Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we
are members one of another.
Eph 4:26 Be angry and do not sin; do not let the sun go down on your anger,
Eph 4:27 and give no opportunity to the devil.
Eph 4:28 Let the thief no longer steal, but rather let him labor, doing honest work with his own hands, so that he
may have something to share with anyone in need.
Eph 4:29 Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for building up, as fits the
occasion, that it may give grace to those who hear.
Eph 4:30 And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption.
Eph 4:31 Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all
malice.
Eph 4:32 Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you.
Eph 5:1 Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children.
Eph 5:2 And walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God.
Eph 5:3 But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you, as is
proper among saints.
Eph 5:4 Let there be no filthiness nor foolish talk nor crude joking, which are out of place, but instead let there
be thanksgiving.
Eph 5:5 For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous ( that
is, an idolater), has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God.
Eph 5:6 Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon
the sons of disobedience.
Eph 5:7 Therefore do not associate with them;
Eph 5:8 for at one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light
Eph 5:9 (for the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true),
Eph 5:10 and try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord.
Eph 5:11 Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them.
Eph 5:12 For it is shameful even to speak of the things that they do in secret.
Eph 5:13 But when anything is exposed by the light, it becomes visible,
Eph 5:14 for anything that becomes visible is light. Therefore it says, "Awake, O sleeper, and arise from the
dead, and Christ will shine on you."
Eph 5:15 Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise but as wise,
Eph 5:16 making the best use of the time, because the days are evil.
Eph 5:17 Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is.
Eph 5:18 And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit,
Eph 5:19 addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the
Lord with all your heart,
Eph 5:20 giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,
Eph 5:21 submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ.
Eph 5:22 Wives, submit to your own husbands, as to the Lord.
Eph 5:23 For the husband is the head of the wife even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is
himself its Savior.
Eph 5:24 Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands.
Eph 5:25 Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her,
Eph 5:26 that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word,
Eph 5:27 so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing,
that she might be holy and without blemish.
Eph 5:28 In the same way husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves
himself.
Eph 5:29 For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church,
Eph 5:30 because we are members of his body.
Eph 5:31 "Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become
one flesh."
Eph 5:32 This mystery is profound, and I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church.
Eph 5:33 However, let each one of you love his wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her
husband.
Eph 6:1 Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
Eph 6:2 "Honor your father and mother" (this is the first commandment with a promise),
Eph 6:3 "that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land."Eph 6:4 Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the
Lord.
Eph 6:5 Slaves, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ,
Eph 6:6 not by the way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from
the heart,
Eph 6:7 rendering service with a good will as to the Lord and not to man,
Eph 6:8 knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is a slave
or free.
Eph 6:9 Masters, do the same to them, and stop your threatening, knowing that he who is both their Master and
yours is in heaven, and that there is no partiality with him.
Eph 6:10 Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might.
Eph 6:11 Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil.
Eph 6:12 For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against
the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places.
Eph 6:13 Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and
having done all, to stand firm.
Eph 6:14 Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of
righteousness,
Eph 6:15 and, as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace.
Eph 6:16 In all circumstances take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of
the evil one;
Eph 6:17 and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God,
Eph 6:18 praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication. To that end keep alert with all
perseverance, making supplication for all the saints,
Eph 6:19 and also for me, that words may be given to me in opening my mouth boldly to proclaim the mystery of
the gospel,
Eph 6:20 for which I am an ambassador in chains, that I may declare it boldly, as I ought to speak.
Eph 6:21 So that you also may know how I am and what I am doing, Tychicus the beloved brother and faithful
minister in the Lord will tell you everything.
Eph 6:22 I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are, and that he may
encourage your hearts.
Eph 6:23 Peace be to the brothers, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Eph 6:24 Grace be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with love incorruptible.
Phi 1:1 Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the
overseers and deacons:
Phi 1:2 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Phi 1:3 I thank my God in all my remembrance of you,
Phi 1:4 always in every prayer of mine for you all making my prayer with joy,
Phi 1:5 because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day until now.
Phi 1:6 And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of
Jesus Christ.
Phi 1:7 It is right for me to feel this way about you all, because I hold you in my heart, for you are all partakers
with me of grace, both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel.
Phi 1:8 For God is my witness, how I yearn for you all with the affection of Christ Jesus.
Phi 1:9 And it is my prayer that your love may abound more and more, with knowledge and all discernment,
Phi 1:10 so that you may approve what is excellent, and so be pure and blameless for the day of Christ,
Phi 1:11 filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
Phi 1:12 I want you to know, brothers, that what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel,
Phi 1:13 so that it has become known throughout the whole imperial guard and to all the rest that my
imprisonment is for Christ.
Phi 1:14 And most of the brothers, having become confident in the Lord by my imprisonment, are much more
bold to speak the word without fear.
Phi 1:15 Some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry, but others from good will.
Phi 1:16 The latter do it out of love, knowing that I am put here for the defense of the gospel.
Phi 1:17 The former proclaim Christ out of rivalry, not sincerely but thinking to afflict me in my imprisonment.
Phi 1:18 What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in that I
rejoice. Yes, and I will rejoice,
Phi 1:19 for I know that through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ this will turn out for my
deliverance,Phi 1:20 as it is my eager expectation and hope that I will not be at all ashamed, but that with full courage now
as always Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death.
Phi 1:21 For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
Phi 1:22 If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. Yet which I shall choose I cannot tell.
Phi 1:23 I am hard pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better.
Phi 1:24 But to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account.
Phi 1:25 Convinced of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you all, for your progress and joy in the
faith,
Phi 1:26 so that in me you may have ample cause to glory in Christ Jesus, because of my coming to you again.
Phi 1:27 Only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or
am absent, I may hear of you that you are standing firm in one spirit, with one mind striving side by side for the
faith of the gospel,
Phi 1:28 and not frightened in anything by your opponents. This is a clear sign to them of their destruction, but
of your salvation, and that from God.
Phi 1:29 For it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ you should not only believe in him but also
suffer for his sake,
Phi 1:30 engaged in the same conflict that you saw I had and now hear that I still have.
Phi 2:1 So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any
affection and sympathy,
Phi 2:2 complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind.
Phi 2:3 Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves.
Phi 2:4 Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others.
Phi 2:5 Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus,
Phi 2:6 who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped,
Phi 2:7 but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being
found in human form,
Phi 2:8 he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross.
Phi 2:9 Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name,
Phi 2:10 so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth,
Phi 2:11 and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
Phi 2:12 Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now, not only as in my presence but much
more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling,
Phi 2:13 for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure.
Phi 2:14 Do all things without grumbling or questioning,
Phi 2:15 that you may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and
twisted generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world,
Phi 2:16 holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or
labor in vain.
Phi 2:17 Even if I am to be poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrificial offering of your faith, I am glad and
rejoice with you all.
Phi 2:18 Likewise you also should be glad and rejoice with me.
Phi 2:19 I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, so that I too may be cheered by news of you.
Phi 2:20 For I have no one like him, who will be genuinely concerned for your welfare.
Phi 2:21 They all seek their own interests, not those of Jesus Christ.
Phi 2:22 But you know Timothy's proven worth, how as a son with a father he has served with me in the gospel.
Phi 2:23 I hope therefore to send him just as soon as I see how it will go with me,
Phi 2:24 and I trust in the Lord that shortly I myself will come also.
Phi 2:25 I have thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus my brother and fellow worker and fellow
soldier, and your messenger and minister to my need,
Phi 2:26 for he has been longing for you all and has been distressed because you heard that he was ill.
Phi 2:27 Indeed he was ill, near to death. But God had mercy on him, and not only on him but on me also, lest I
should have sorrow upon sorrow.
Phi 2:28 I am the more eager to send him, therefore, that you may rejoice at seeing him again, and that I may
be less anxious.
Phi 2:29 So receive him in the Lord with all joy, and honor such men,
Phi 2:30 for he nearly died for the work of Christ, risking his life to complete what was lacking in your service to
me.
Phi 3:1 Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you is no trouble to me and is safe
for you.Phi 3:2 Look out for the dogs, look out for the evildoers, look out for those who mutilate the flesh.
Phi 3:3 For we are the real circumcision, who worship by the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus and put no
confidence in the fleshPhi 3:4 though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh also. If anyone else thinks he has reason for
confidence in the flesh, I have more:
Phi 3:5 circumcised on the eighth day, of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; as
to the law, a Pharisee;
Phi 3:6 as to zeal, a persecutor of the church; as to righteousness, under the law blameless.
Phi 3:7 But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ.
Phi 3:8 Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord.
For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ
Phi 3:9 and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which
comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faithPhi 3:10 that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him
in his death,
Phi 3:11 that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead.
Phi 3:12 Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect, but I press on to make it my own, because
Christ Jesus has made me his own.
Phi 3:13 Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do: forgetting what lies behind
and straining forward to what lies ahead,
Phi 3:14 I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.
Phi 3:15 Let those of us who are mature think this way, and if in anything you think otherwise, God will reveal
that also to you.
Phi 3:16 Only let us hold true to what we have attained.
Phi 3:17 Brothers, join in imitating me, and keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example you
have in us.
Phi 3:18 For many, of whom I have often told you and now tell you even with tears, walk as enemies of the
cross of Christ.
Phi 3:19 Their end is destruction, their god is their belly, and they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly
things.
Phi 3:20 But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,
Phi 3:21 who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even to
subject all things to himself.
Phi 4:1 Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for, my joy and crown, stand firm thus in the Lord, my
beloved.
Phi 4:2 I entreat Euodia and I entreat Syntyche to agree in the Lord.
Phi 4:3 Yes, I ask you also, true companion, help these women, who have labored side by side with me in the
gospel together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life.
Phi 4:4 Rejoice in the Lord always; again I will say, Rejoice.
Phi 4:5 Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand;
Phi 4:6 do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your
requests be made known to God.
Phi 4:7 And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in
Christ Jesus.
Phi 4:8 Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is
lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about
these things.
Phi 4:9 What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me- practice these things, and the God of
peace will be with you.
Phi 4:10 I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at length you have revived your concern for me. You were indeed
concerned for me, but you had no opportunity.
Phi 4:11 Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content.
Phi 4:12 I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I have
learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need.
Phi 4:13 I can do all things through him who strengthens me.
Phi 4:14 Yet it was kind of you to share my trouble.
Phi 4:15 And you Philippians yourselves know that in the beginning of the gospel, when I left Macedonia, no
church entered into partnership with me in giving and receiving, except you only.
Phi 4:16 Even in Thessalonica you sent me help for my needs once and again.Phi 4:17 Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that increases to your credit.
Phi 4:18 I have received full payment, and more. I am well supplied, having received from Epaphroditus the gifts
you sent, a fragrant offering, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God.
Phi 4:19 And my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
Phi 4:20 To our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen.
Phi 4:21 Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you.
Phi 4:22 All the saints greet you, especially those of Caesar's household.
Phi 4:23 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.

1Th 1:1 Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy, To the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus
Christ: Grace to you and peace.
1Th 1:2 We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers,
1Th 1:3 remembering before our God and Father your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope
in our Lord Jesus Christ.
1Th 1:4 For we know, brothers loved by God, that he has chosen you,
1Th 1:5 because our gospel came to you not only in word, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full
conviction. You know what kind of men we proved to be among you for your sake.
1Th 1:6 And you became imitators of us and of the Lord, for you received the word in much affliction, with the
joy of the Holy Spirit,
1Th 1:7 so that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and in Achaia.
1Th 1:8 For not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaia, but your faith in
God has gone forth everywhere, so that we need not say anything.
1Th 1:9 For they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you, and how you turned
to God from idols to serve the living and true God,
1Th 1:10 and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus who delivers us from the
wrath to come.
1Th 2:1 For you yourselves know, brothers, that our coming to you was not in vain.
1Th 2:2 But though we had already suffered and been shamefully treated at Philippi, as you know, we had
boldness in our God to declare to you the gospel of God in the midst of much conflict.
1Th 2:3 For our appeal does not spring from error or impurity or any attempt to deceive,
1Th 2:4 but just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak, not to please
man, but to please God who tests our hearts.
1Th 2:5 For we never came with words of flattery, as you know, nor with a pretext for greed- God is witness.
1Th 2:6 Nor did we seek glory from people, whether from you or from others, though we could have madedemands as apostles of Christ.
1Th 2:7 But we were gentle among you, like a nursing mother taking care of her own children.
1Th 2:8 So, being affectionately desirous of you, we were ready to share with you not only the gospel of God
but also our own selves, because you had become very dear to us.
1Th 2:9 For you remember, brothers, our labor and toil: we worked night and day, that we might not be a burden
to any of you, while we proclaimed to you the gospel of God.
1Th 2:10 You are witnesses, and God also, how holy and righteous and blameless was our conduct toward you
believers.
1Th 2:11 For you know how, like a father with his children,
1Th 2:12 we exhorted each one of you and encouraged you and charged you to walk in a manner worthy of
God, who calls you into his own kingdom and glory.
1Th 2:13 And we also thank God constantly for this, that when you received the word of God, which you heard
from us, you accepted it not as the word of men but as what it really is, the word of God, which is at work in you
believers.
1Th 2:14 For you, brothers, became imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea. For you
suffered the same things from your own countrymen as they did from the Jews,
1Th 2:15 who killed both the Lord Jesus and the prophets, and drove us out, and displease God and oppose all
mankind
1Th 2:16 by hindering us from speaking to the Gentiles that they might be saved- so as always to fill up the
measure of their sins. But God's wrath has come upon them at last!
1Th 2:17 But since we were torn away from you, brothers, for a short time, in person not in heart, we
endeavored the more eagerly and with great desire to see you face to face,
1Th 2:18 because we wanted to come to you- I, Paul, again and again- but Satan hindered us.
1Th 2:19 For what is our hope or joy or crown of boasting before our Lord Jesus at his coming? Is it not you?
1Th 2:20 For you are our glory and joy.
1Th 3:1 Therefore when we could bear it no longer, we were willing to be left behind at Athens alone,
1Th 3:2 and we sent Timothy, our brother and God's coworker in the gospel of Christ, to establish and exhort
you in your faith,
1Th 3:3 that no one be moved by these afflictions. For you yourselves know that we are destined for this.
1Th 3:4 For when we were with you, we kept telling you beforehand that we were to suffer affliction, just as it
has come to pass, and just as you know.
1Th 3:5 For this reason, when I could bear it no longer, I sent to learn about your faith, for fear that somehow
the tempter had tempted you and our labor would be in vain.
1Th 3:6 But now that Timothy has come to us from you, and has brought us the good news of your faith and
love and reported that you always remember us kindly and long to see us, as we long to see you-
1Th 3:7 for this reason, brothers, in all our distress and affliction we have been comforted about you through
your faith.
1Th 3:8 For now we live, if you are standing fast in the Lord.
1Th 3:9 For what thanksgiving can we return to God for you, for all the joy that we feel for your sake before our
God,
1Th 3:10 as we pray most earnestly night and day that we may see you face to face and supply what is lacking
in your faith?
1Th 3:11 Now may our God and Father himself, and our Lord Jesus, direct our way to you,
1Th 3:12 and may the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all, as we do for you,
1Th 3:13 so that he may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father, at the coming
of our Lord Jesus with all his saints.
1Th 4:1 Finally, then, brothers, we ask and urge you in the Lord Jesus, that as you received from us how you
ought to live and to please God, just as you are doing, that you do so more and more.
1Th 4:2 For you know what instructions we gave you through the Lord Jesus.
1Th 4:3 For this is the will of God, your sanctification: that you abstain from sexual immorality;
1Th 4:4 that each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor,
1Th 4:5 not in the passion of lust like the Gentiles who do not know God;
1Th 4:6 that no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter, because the Lord is an avenger in all these
things, as we told you beforehand and solemnly warned you.
1Th 4:7 For God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness.
1Th 4:8 Therefore whoever disregards this, disregards not man but God, who gives his Holy Spirit to you.
1Th 4:9 Now concerning brotherly love you have no need for anyone to write to you, for you yourselves have
been taught by God to love one another,
1Th 4:10 for that indeed is what you are doing to all the brothers throughout Macedonia. But we urge you,brothers, to do this more and more,
1Th 4:11 and to aspire to live quietly, and to mind your own affairs, and to work with your hands, as we
instructed you,
1Th 4:12 so that you may live properly before outsiders and be dependent on no one.
1Th 4:13 But we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep, that you may not
grieve as others do who have no hope.
1Th 4:14 For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him
those who have fallen asleep.
1Th 4:15 For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we who are alive, who are left until the coming
of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep.
1Th 4:16 For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel,
and with the sound of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first.
1Th 4:17 Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the
Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord.
1Th 4:18 Therefore encourage one another with these words.
1Th 5:1 Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need to have anything written to
you.
1Th 5:2 For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night.
1Th 5:3 While people are saying, "There is peace and security," then sudden destruction will come upon them
as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape.
1Th 5:4 But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief.
1Th 5:5 For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness.
1Th 5:6 So then let us not sleep, as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober.
1Th 5:7 For those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who get drunk, are drunk at night.
1Th 5:8 But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for
a helmet the hope of salvation.
1Th 5:9 For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
1Th 5:10 who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep we might live with him.
1Th 5:11 Therefore encourage one another and build one another up, just as you are doing.
1Th 5:12 We ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and
admonish you,
1Th 5:13 and to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.
1Th 5:14 And we urge you, brothers, admonish the idle, encourage the fainthearted, help the weak, be patient
with them all.
1Th 5:15 See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to
everyone.
1Th 5:16 Rejoice always,
1Th 5:17 pray without ceasing,
1Th 5:18 give thanks in all circumstances; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you.
1Th 5:19 Do not quench the Spirit.
1Th 5:20 Do not despise prophecies,
1Th 5:21 but test everything; hold fast what is good.
1Th 5:22 Abstain from every form of evil.
1Th 5:23 Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and
body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1Th 5:24 He who calls you is faithful; he will surely do it.
1Th 5:25 Brothers, pray for us.
1Th 5:26 Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
1Th 5:27 I put you under oath before the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers.
1Th 5:28 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
2Th 1:1 Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy, To the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus
Christ:
2Th 1:2 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2Th 1:3 We ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers, as is right, because your faith is growing
abundantly, and the love of every one of you for one another is increasing.
2Th 1:4 Therefore we ourselves boast about you in the churches of God for your steadfastness and faith in all
your persecutions and in the afflictions that you are enduring.
2Th 1:5 This is evidence of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom
of God, for which you are also suffering2Th 1:6 since indeed God considers it just to repay with affliction those who afflict you,
2Th 1:7 and to grant relief to you who are afflicted as well as to us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from
heaven with his mighty angels
2Th 1:8 in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the
gospel of our Lord Jesus.
2Th 1:9 They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the
glory of his might,
2Th 1:10 when he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints, and to be marveled at among all who have
believed, because our testimony to you was believed.
2Th 1:11 To this end we always pray for you, that our God may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill
every resolve for good and every work of faith by his power,
2Th 1:12 so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the grace of
our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2Th 2:1 Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him, we ask
you, brothers,
2Th 2:2 not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or a letter seeming to
be from us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has come.
2Th 2:3 Let no one deceive you in any way. For that day will not come, unless the rebellion comes first, and the
man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction,
2Th 2:4 who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called god or object of worship, so that he takes his
seat in the temple of God, proclaiming himself to be God.
2Th 2:5 Do you not remember that when I was still with you I told you these things?
2Th 2:6 And you know what is restraining him now so that he may be revealed in his time.
2Th 2:7 For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work. Only he who now restrains it will do so until he is out
of the way.
2Th 2:8 And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will kill with the breath of his mouth
and bring to nothing by the appearance of his coming.
2Th 2:9 The coming of the lawless one is by the activity of Satan with all power and false signs and wonders,
2Th 2:10 and with all wicked deception for those who are perishing, because they refused to love the truth and
so be saved.
2Th 2:11 Therefore God sends them a strong delusion, so that they may believe what is false,
2Th 2:12 in order that all may be condemned who did not believe the truth but had pleasure in unrighteousness.
2Th 2:13 But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose
you as the first fruits to be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth.
2Th 2:14 To this he called you through our gospel, so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2Th 2:15 So then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the traditions that you were taught by us, either by our
spoken word or by our letter.
2Th 2:16 Now may our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God our Father, who loved us and gave us eternal
comfort and good hope through grace,
2Th 2:17 comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word.
2Th 3:1 Finally, brothers, pray for us, that the word of the Lord may speed ahead and be honored, as happened
among you,
2Th 3:2 and that we may be delivered from wicked and evil men. For not all have faith.
2Th 3:3 But the Lord is faithful. He will establish you and guard you against the evil one.
2Th 3:4 And we have confidence in the Lord about you, that you are doing and will do the things that we
command.
2Th 3:5 May the Lord direct your hearts to the love of God and to the steadfastness of Christ.
2Th 3:6 Now we command you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep away from any
brother who is walking in idleness and not in accord with the tradition that you received from us.
2Th 3:7 For you yourselves know how you ought to imitate us, because we were not idle when we were with
you,
2Th 3:8 nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for it, but with toil and labor we worked night and day, that
we might not be a burden to any of you.
2Th 3:9 It was not because we do not have that right, but to give you in ourselves an example to imitate.
2Th 3:10 For even when we were with you, we would give you this command: If anyone is not willing to work, let
him not eat.
2Th 3:11 For we hear that some among you walk in idleness, not busy at work, but busybodies.
2Th 3:12 Now such persons we command and encourage in the Lord Jesus Christ to do their work quietly and
to earn their own living.2Th 3:13 As for you, brothers, do not grow weary in doing good.
2Th 3:14 If anyone does not obey what we say in this letter, take note of that person, and have nothing to do
with him, that he may be ashamed.
2Th 3:15 Do not regard him as an enemy, but warn him as a brother.
2Th 3:16 Now may the Lord of peace himself give you peace at all times in every way. The Lord be with you all.
2Th 3:17 I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. This is the sign of genuineness in every letter of mine; it
is the way I write.
2Th 3:18 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
1Ti 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus our hope,
1Ti 1:2 To Timothy, my true child in the faith: Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus
our Lord.
1Ti 1:3 As I urged you when I was going to Macedonia, remain at Ephesus that you may charge certain persons
not to teach any different doctrine,
1Ti 1:4 nor to devote themselves to myths and endless genealogies, which promote speculations rather than the
stewardship from God that is by faith.
1Ti 1:5 The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith.
1Ti 1:6 Certain persons, by swerving from these, have wandered away into vain discussion,
1Ti 1:7 desiring to be teachers of the law, without understanding either what they are saying or the things about
which they make confident assertions.
1Ti 1:8 Now we know that the law is good, if one uses it lawfully,
1Ti 1:9 understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just but for the lawless and disobedient, for the
ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for murderers,
1Ti 1:10 the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, enslavers, liars, perjurers, and whatever else is
contrary to sound doctrine,
1Ti 1:11 in accordance with the glorious gospel of the blessed God with which I have been entrusted.
1Ti 1:12 I thank him who has given me strength, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful,
appointing me to his service,
1Ti 1:13 though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, and insolent opponent. But I received mercy because
I had acted ignorantly in unbelief,
1Ti 1:14 and the grace of our Lord overflowed for me with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus.
1Ti 1:15 The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to
save sinners, of whom I am the foremost.
1Ti 1:16 But I received mercy for this reason, that in me, as the foremost, Jesus Christ might display his perfect
patience as an example to those who were to believe in him for eternal life.
1Ti 1:17 To the King of ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.
1Ti 1:18 This charge I entrust to you, Timothy, my child, in accordance with the prophecies previously made
about you, that by them you may wage the good warfare,
1Ti 1:19 holding faith and a good conscience. By rejecting this, some have made shipwreck of their faith,
1Ti 1:20 among whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan that they may learn
not to blaspheme.
1Ti 2:1 First of all, then, I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all
people,
1Ti 2:2 for kings and all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified
in every way.
1Ti 2:3 This is good, and it is pleasing in the sight of God our Savior,
1Ti 2:4 who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth.
1Ti 2:5 For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus,
1Ti 2:6 who gave himself as a ransom for all, which is the testimony given at the proper time.
1Ti 2:7 For this I was appointed a preacher and an apostle ( I am telling the truth, I am not lying), a teacher of
the Gentiles in faith and truth.
1Ti 2:8 I desire then that in every place the men should pray, lifting holy hands without anger or quarreling;
1Ti 2:9 likewise also that women should adorn themselves in respectable apparel, with modesty and selfcontrol, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly attire,
1Ti 2:10 but with what is proper for women who profess godliness- with good works.
1Ti 2:11 Let a woman learn quietly with all submissiveness.
1Ti 2:12 I do not permit a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man; rather, she is to remain quiet.
1Ti 2:13 For Adam was formed first, then Eve;
1Ti 2:14 and Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a transgressor.
1Ti 2:15 Yet she will be saved through childbearing- if they continue in faith and love and holiness, with selfcontrol.
1Ti 3:1 The saying is trustworthy: If anyone aspires to the office of overseer, he desires a noble task.
1Ti 3:2 Therefore an overseer must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, sober-minded, self-controlled,
respectable, hospitable, able to teach,
1Ti 3:3 not a drunkard, not violent but gentle, not quarrelsome, not a lover of money.
1Ti 3:4 He must manage his own household well, with all dignity keeping his children submissive,
1Ti 3:5 for if someone does not know how to manage his own household, how will he care for God's church?
1Ti 3:6 He must not be a recent convert, or he may become puffed up with conceit and fall into the
condemnation of the devil.
1Ti 3:7 Moreover, he must be well thought of by outsiders, so that he may not fall into disgrace, into a snare of
the devil.
1Ti 3:8 Deacons likewise must be dignified, not double-tongued, not addicted to much wine, not greedy for
dishonest gain.
1Ti 3:9 They must hold the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience.
1Ti 3:10 And let them also be tested first; then let them serve as deacons if they prove themselves blameless.
1Ti 3:11 Their wives likewise must be dignified, not slanderers, but sober-minded, faithful in all things.
1Ti 3:12 Let deacons each be the husband of one wife, managing their children and their own households well.
1Ti 3:13 For those who serve well as deacons gain a good standing for themselves and also great confidence in
the faith that is in Christ Jesus.
1Ti 3:14 I hope to come to you soon, but I am writing these things to you so that,
1Ti 3:15 if I delay, you may know how one ought to behave in the household of God, which is the church of the
living God, a pillar and buttress of truth.
1Ti 3:16 Great indeed, we confess, is the mystery of godliness: He was manifested in the flesh, vindicated by
the Spirit, seen by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory.
1Ti 4:1 Now the Spirit expressly says that in later times some will depart from the faith by devoting themselves
to deceitful spirits and teachings of demons,
1Ti 4:2 through the insincerity of liars whose consciences are seared,
1Ti 4:3 who forbid marriage and require abstinence from foods that God created to be received with
thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth.
1Ti 4:4 For everything created by God is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving,
1Ti 4:5 for it is made holy by the word of God and prayer.
1Ti 4:6 If you put these things before the brothers, you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus, being trained in
the words of the faith and of the good doctrine that you have followed.
1Ti 4:7 Have nothing to do with irreverent, silly myths. Rather train yourself for godliness;
1Ti 4:8 for while bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way, as it holds promise for the
present life and also for the life to come.
1Ti 4:9 The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance.
1Ti 4:10 For to this end we toil and strive, because we have our hope set on the living God, who is the Savior of
all people, especially of those who believe.
1Ti 4:11 Command and teach these things.
1Ti 4:12 Let no one despise you for your youth, but set the believers an example in speech, in conduct, in love,
in faith, in purity.
1Ti 4:13 Until I come, devote yourself to the public reading of Scripture, to exhortation, to teaching.
1Ti 4:14 Do not neglect the gift you have, which was given you by prophecy when the council of elders laid their
hands on you.
1Ti 4:15 Practice these things, devote yourself to them, so that all may see your progress.
1Ti 4:16 Keep a close watch on yourself and on the teaching. Persist in this, for by so doing you will save both
yourself and your hearers.
1Ti 5:1 Do not rebuke an older man but encourage him as you would a father. Treat younger men like brothers,
1Ti 5:2 older women like mothers, younger women like sisters, in all purity.
1Ti 5:3 Honor widows who are truly widows.
1Ti 5:4 But if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show godliness to their own
household and to make some return to their parents, for this is pleasing in the sight of God.
1Ti 5:5 She who is truly a widow, left all alone, has set her hope on God and continues in supplications and
prayers night and day,
1Ti 5:6 but she who is self-indulgent is dead even while she lives.
1Ti 5:7 Command these things as well, so that they may be without reproach.
1Ti 5:8 But if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and especially for members of his household, he has
denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.1Ti 5:9 Let a widow be enrolled if she is not less than sixty years of age, having been the wife of one husband,
1Ti 5:10 and having a reputation for good works: if she has brought up children, has shown hospitality, has
washed the feet of the saints, has cared for the afflicted, and has devoted herself to every good work.
1Ti 5:11 But refuse to enroll younger widows, for when their passions draw them away from Christ, they desire
to marry
1Ti 5:12 and so incur condemnation for having abandoned their former faith.
1Ti 5:13 Besides that, they learn to be idlers, going about from house to house, and not only idlers, but also
gossips and busybodies, saying what they should not.
1Ti 5:14 So I would have younger widows marry, bear children, manage their households, and give the
adversary no occasion for slander.
1Ti 5:15 For some have already strayed after Satan.
1Ti 5:16 If any believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her care for them. Let the church not be
burdened, so that it may care for those who are really widows.
1Ti 5:17 Let the elders who rule well be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in
preaching and teaching.
1Ti 5:18 For the Scripture says, "You shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain," and, "The laborer
deserves his wages."
1Ti 5:19 Do not admit a charge against an elder except on the evidence of two or three witnesses.
1Ti 5:20 As for those who persist in sin, rebuke them in the presence of all, so that the rest may stand in fear.
1Ti 5:21 In the presence of God and of Christ Jesus and of the elect angels I charge you to keep these rules
without prejudging, doing nothing from partiality.
1Ti 5:22 Do not be hasty in the laying on of hands, nor take part in the sins of others; keep yourself pure.
1Ti 5:23 (No longer drink only water, but use a little wine for the sake of your stomach and your frequent
ailments.)
1Ti 5:24 The sins of some men are conspicuous, going before them to judgment, but the sins of others appear
later.
1Ti 5:25 So also good works are conspicuous, and even those that are not cannot remain hidden.
1Ti 6:1 Let all who are under a yoke as slaves regard their own masters as worthy of all honor, so that the name
of God and the teaching may not be reviled.
1Ti 6:2 Those who have believing masters must not be disrespectful on the ground that they are brothers; rather
they must serve all the better since those who benefit by their good service are believers and beloved. Teach
and urge these things.
1Ti 6:3 If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not agree with the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ
and the teaching that accords with godliness,
1Ti 6:4 he is puffed up with conceit and understands nothing. He has an unhealthy craving for controversy and
for quarrels about words, which produce envy, dissension, slander, evil suspicions,
1Ti 6:5 and constant friction among people who are depraved in mind and deprived of the truth, imagining that
godliness is a means of gain.
1Ti 6:6 Now there is great gain in godliness with contentment,
1Ti 6:7 for we brought nothing into the world, and we cannot take anything out of the world.
1Ti 6:8 But if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content.
1Ti 6:9 But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and harmful
desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction.
1Ti 6:10 For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered
away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs.
1Ti 6:11 But as for you, O man of God, flee these things. Pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love,
steadfastness, gentleness.
1Ti 6:12 Fight the good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called and about which
you made the good confession in the presence of many witnesses.
1Ti 6:13 I charge you in the presence of God, who gives life to all things, and of Christ Jesus, who in his
testimony before Pontius Pilate made the good confession,
1Ti 6:14 to keep the commandment unstained and free from reproach until the appearing of our Lord Jesus
Christ,
1Ti 6:15 which he will display at the proper time- he who is the blessed and only Sovereign, the King of kings
and Lord of lords,
1Ti 6:16 who alone has immortality, who dwells in unapproachable light, whom no one has ever seen or can
see. To him be honor and eternal dominion. Amen.
1Ti 6:17 As for the rich in this present age, charge them not to be haughty, nor to set their hopes on the
uncertainty of riches, but on God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy.1Ti 6:18 They are to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share,
1Ti 6:19 thus storing up treasure for themselves as a good foundation for the future, so that they may take hold
of that which is truly life.
1Ti 6:20 O Timothy, guard the deposit entrusted to you. Avoid the irreverent babble and contradictions of what
is falsely called "knowledge,"
1Ti 6:21 for by professing it some have swerved from the faith. Grace be with you.
2Ti 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God according to the promise of the life that is in Christ
Jesus,
2Ti 1:2 To Timothy, my beloved child: Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
2Ti 1:3 I thank God whom I serve, as did my ancestors, with a clear conscience, as I remember you constantly
in my prayers night and day.
2Ti 1:4 As I remember your tears, I long to see you, that I may be filled with joy.
2Ti 1:5 I am reminded of your sincere faith, a faith that dwelt first in your grandmother Lois and your mother
Eunice and now, I am sure, dwells in you as well.
2Ti 1:6 For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God, which is in you through the laying on of my
hands,
2Ti 1:7 for God gave us a spirit not of fear but of power and love and self-control.
2Ti 1:8 Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but share in
suffering for the gospel by the power of God,
2Ti 1:9 who saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because of our works but because of his own purpose
and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began,
2Ti 1:10 and which now has been manifested through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who abolished
death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel,
2Ti 1:11 for which I was appointed a preacher and apostle and teacher,
2Ti 1:12 which is why I suffer as I do. But I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and I am
convinced that he is able to guard until that Day what has been entrusted to me.
2Ti 1:13 Follow the pattern of the sound words that you have heard from me, in the faith and love that are in
Christ Jesus.
2Ti 1:14 By the Holy Spirit who dwells within us, guard the good deposit entrusted to you.
2Ti 1:15 You are aware that all who are in Asia turned away from me, among whom are Phygelus and
Hermogenes.
2Ti 1:16 May the Lord grant mercy to the household of Onesiphorus, for he often refreshed me and was not
ashamed of my chains,
2Ti 1:17 but when he arrived in Rome he searched for me earnestly and found me-
2Ti 1:18 may the Lord grant him to find mercy from the Lord on that Day!- and you well know all the service he
rendered at Ephesus.
2Ti 2:1 You then, my child, be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus,
2Ti 2:2 and what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses entrust to faithful men who will be
able to teach others also.
2Ti 2:3 Share in suffering as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
2Ti 2:4 No soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuits, since his aim is to please the one who enlisted him.
2Ti 2:5 An athlete is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules.
2Ti 2:6 It is the hard-working farmer who ought to have the first share of the crops.
2Ti 2:7 Think over what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything.
2Ti 2:8 Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, the offspring of David, as preached in my gospel,
2Ti 2:9 for which I am suffering, bound with chains as a criminal. But the word of God is not bound!
2Ti 2:10 Therefore I endure everything for the sake of the elect, that they also may obtain the salvation that is in
Christ Jesus with eternal glory.
2Ti 2:11 The saying is trustworthy, for: If we have died with him, we will also live with him;
2Ti 2:12 if we endure, we will also reign with him; if we deny him, he also will deny us;
2Ti 2:13 if we are faithless, he remains faithful- for he cannot deny himself.
2Ti 2:14 Remind them of these things, and charge them before God not to quarrel about words, which does no
good, but only ruins the hearers.
2Ti 2:15 Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved, a worker who has no need to be ashamed,
rightly handling the word of truth.
2Ti 2:16 But avoid irreverent babble, for it will lead people into more and more ungodliness,
2Ti 2:17 and their talk will spread like gangrene. Among them are Hymenaeus and Philetus,
2Ti 2:18 who have swerved from the truth, saying that the resurrection has already happened. They are
upsetting the faith of some.2Ti 2:19 But God's firm foundation stands, bearing this seal: "The Lord knows those who are his," and, "Let
everyone who names the name of the Lord depart from iniquity."
2Ti 2:20 Now in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver but also of wood and clay, some for
honorable use, some for dishonorable.
2Ti 2:21 Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from what is dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use,
set apart as holy, useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work.
2Ti 2:22 So flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, along with those who call
on the Lord from a pure heart.
2Ti 2:23 Have nothing to do with foolish, ignorant controversies; you know that they breed quarrels.
2Ti 2:24 And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring
evil,
2Ti 2:25 correcting his opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to a
knowledge of the truth,
2Ti 2:26 and they may escape from the snare of the devil, after being captured by him to do his will.
2Ti 3:1 But understand this, that in the last days there will come times of difficulty.
2Ti 3:2 For people will be lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents,
ungrateful, unholy,
2Ti 3:3 heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not loving good,
2Ti 3:4 treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God,
2Ti 3:5 having the appearance of godliness, but denying its power. Avoid such people.
2Ti 3:6 For among them are those who creep into households and capture weak women, burdened with sins
and led astray by various passions,
2Ti 3:7 always learning and never able to arrive at a knowledge of the truth.
2Ti 3:8 Just as Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so these men also oppose the truth, men corrupted in
mind and disqualified regarding the faith.
2Ti 3:9 But they will not get very far, for their folly will be plain to all, as was that of those two men.
2Ti 3:10 You, however, have followed my teaching, my conduct, my aim in life, my faith, my patience, my love,
my steadfastness,
2Ti 3:11 my persecutions and sufferings that happened to me at Antioch, at Iconium, and at Lystra- which
persecutions I endured; yet from them all the Lord rescued me.
2Ti 3:12 Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted,
2Ti 3:13 while evil people and impostors will go on from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived.
2Ti 3:14 But as for you, continue in what you have learned and have firmly believed, knowing from whom you
learned it
2Ti 3:15 and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writings, which are able to make
you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.
2Ti 3:16 All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for
training in righ teousness,
2Ti 3:17 that the man of God may be competent, equipped for every good work.
2Ti 4:1 I charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by
his appearing and his kingdom:
2Ti 4:2 preach the word; be ready in season and out of season; reprove, rebuke, and exhort, with complete
patience and teaching.
2Ti 4:3 For the time is coming when people will not endure sound teaching, but having itching ears they will
accumulate for themselves teachers to suit their own passions,
2Ti 4:4 and will turn away from listening to the truth and wander off into myths.
2Ti 4:5 As for you, always be sober-minded, endure suffering, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry.
2Ti 4:6 For I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure has come.
2Ti 4:7 I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith.
2Ti 4:8 Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will
award to me on that Day, and not only to me but also to all who have loved his appearing.
2Ti 4:9 Do your best to come to me soon.
2Ti 4:10 For Demas, in love with this present world, has deserted me and gone to Thessalonica. Crescens has
gone to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia.
2Ti 4:11 Luke alone is with me. Get Mark and bring him with you, for he is very useful to me for ministry.
2Ti 4:12 Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus.
2Ti 4:13 When you come, bring the cloak that I left with Carpus at Troas, also the books, and above all the
parchments.
2Ti 4:14 Alexander the coppersmith did me great harm; the Lord will repay him according to his deeds.2Ti 4:15 Beware of him yourself, for he strongly opposed our message.
2Ti 4:16 At my first defense no one came to stand by me, but all deserted me. May it not be charged against
them!
2Ti 4:17 But the Lord stood by me and strengthened me, so that through me the message might be fully
proclaimed and all the Gentiles might hear it. So I was rescued from the lion's mouth.
2Ti 4:18 The Lord will rescue me from every evil deed and bring me safely into his heavenly kingdom. To him be
the glory forever and ever. Amen.
2Ti 4:19 Greet Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus.
2Ti 4:20 Erastus remained at Corinth, and I left Trophimus, who was ill, at Miletus.
2Ti 4:21 Do your best to come before winter. Eubulus sends greetings to you, as do Pudens and Linus and
Claudia and all the brothers.
2Ti 4:22 The Lord be with your spirit. Grace be with you.
Tit 1:1 Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the sake of the faith of God's elect and their
knowledge of the truth, which accords with godliness,
Tit 1:2 in hope of eternal life, which God, who never lies, promised before the ages began
Tit 1:3 and at the proper time manifested in his word through the preaching with which I have been entrusted by
the command of God our Savior;
Tit 1:4 To Titus, my true child in a common faith: Grace and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our
Savior.
Tit 1:5 This is why I left you in Crete, so that you might put what remained into order, and appoint elders in every
town as I directed youTit 1:6 if anyone is above reproach, the husband of one wife, and his children are believers and not open to the
charge of debauchery or insubordination.
Tit 1:7 For an overseer, as God's steward, must be above reproach. He must not be arrogant or quick-tempered
or a drunkard or violent or greedy for gain,
Tit 1:8 but hospitable, a lover of good, self-controlled, upright, holy, and disciplined.
Tit 1:9 He must hold firm to the trustworthy word as taught, so that he may be able to give instruction in sound
doctrine and also to rebuke those who contradict it.
Tit 1:10 For there are many who are insubordinate, empty talkers and deceivers, especially those of the
circumcision party.
Tit 1:11 They must be silenced, since they are upsetting whole families by teaching for shameful gain what they
ought not to teach.
Tit 1:12 One of the Cretans, a prophet of their own, said, "Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons."
Tit 1:13 This testimony is true. Therefore rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith,
Tit 1:14 not devoting themselves to Jewish myths and the commands of people who turn away from the truth.
Tit 1:15 To the pure, all things are pure, but to the defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure; but both their minds
and their consciences are defiled.
Tit 1:16 They profess to know God, but they deny him by their works. They are detestable, disobedient, unfit for
any good work.
Tit 2:1 But as for you, teach what accords with sound doctrine.
Tit 2:2 Older men are to be sober-minded, dignified, self-controlled, sound in faith, in love, and in steadfastness.
Tit 2:3 Older women likewise are to be reverent in behavior, not slanderers or slaves to much wine. They are to
teach what is good,
Tit 2:4 and so train the young women to love their husbands and children,
Tit 2:5 to be self-controlled, pure, working at home, kind, and submissive to their own husbands, that the word of
God may not be reviled.
Tit 2:6 Likewise, urge the younger men to be self-controlled.
Tit 2:7 Show yourself in all respects to be a model of good works, and in your teaching show integrity, dignity,
Tit 2:8 and sound speech that cannot be condemned, so that an opponent may be put to shame, having nothing
evil to say about us.
Tit 2:9 Slaves are to be submissive to their own masters in everything; they are to be well-pleasing, not
argumentative,
Tit 2:10 not pilfering, but showing all good faith, so that in everything they may adorn the doctrine of God our
Savior.
Tit 2:11 For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people,
Tit 2:12 training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly
lives in the present age,
Tit 2:13 waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ,
Tit 2:14 who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his ownpossession who are zealous for good works.
Tit 2:15 Declare these things; exhort and rebuke with all authority. Let no one disregard you.
Tit 3:1 Remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work,
Tit 3:2 to speak evil of no one, to avoid quarreling, to be gentle, and to show perfect courtesy toward all people.
Tit 3:3 For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures,
passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another.
Tit 3:4 But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared,
Tit 3:5 he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the
washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit,
Tit 3:6 whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior,
Tit 3:7 so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
Tit 3:8 The saying is trustworthy, and I want you to insist on these things, so that those who have believed in
God may be careful to devote themselves to good works. These things are excellent and profitable for people.
Tit 3:9 But avoid foolish controversies, genealogies, dissensions, and quarrels about the law, for they are
unprofitable and worthless.
Tit 3:10 As for a person who stirs up division, after warning him once and then twice, have nothing more to do
with him,
Tit 3:11 knowing that such a person is warped and sinful; he is self-condemned.
Tit 3:12 When I send Artemas or Tychicus to you, do your best to come to me at Nicopolis, for I have decided to
spend the winter there.
Tit 3:13 Do your best to speed Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their way; see that they lack nothing.
Tit 3:14 And let our people learn to devote themselves to good works, so as to help cases of urgent need, and
not be unfruitful.
Tit 3:15 All who are with me send greetings to you. Greet those who love us in the faith. Grace be with you all.
Phm 1:1 Paul, a prisoner for Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother, To Philemon our beloved fellow worker
Phm 1:2 and Apphia our sister and Archippus our fellow soldier, and the church in your house:
Phm 1:3 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Phm 1:4 I thank my God always when I remember you in my prayers,
Phm 1:5 because I hear of your love and of the faith that you have toward the Lord Jesus and all the saints,
Phm 1:6 and I pray that the sharing of your faith may become effective for the full knowledge of every good
thing that is in us for the sake of Christ.
Phm 1:7 For I have derived much joy and comfort from your love, my brother, because the hearts of the saints
have been refreshed through you.
Phm 1:8 Accordingly, though I am bold enough in Christ to command you to do what is required,
Phm 1:9 yet for love's sake I prefer to appeal to you- I, Paul, an old man and now a prisoner also for Christ
JesusPhm 1:10 I appeal to you for my child, Onesimus, whose father I became in my imprisonment.
Phm 1:11 (Formerly he was useless to you, but now he is indeed useful to you and to me.)
Phm 1:12 I am sending him back to you, sending my very heart.
Phm 1:13 I would have been glad to keep him with me, in order that he might serve me on your behalf during
my imprisonment for the gospel,
Phm 1:14 but I preferred to do nothing without your consent in order that your goodness might not be by
compulsion but of your own free will.
Phm 1:15 For this perhaps is why he was parted from you for a while, that you might have him back forever,
Phm 1:16 no longer as a slave but more than a slave, as a beloved brother- especially to me, but how much
more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord.
Phm 1:17 So if you consider me your partner, receive him as you would receive me.
Phm 1:18 If he has wronged you at all, or owes you anything, charge that to my account.
Phm 1:19 I, Paul, write this with my own hand: I will repay it- to say nothing of your owing me even your own
self.
Phm 1:20 Yes, brother, I want some benefit from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in Christ.
Phm 1:21 Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I say.
Phm 1:22 At the same time, prepare a guest room for me, for I am hoping that through your prayers I will be
graciously given to you.
Phm 1:23 Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, sends greetings to you,
Phm 1:24 and so do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers.
Phm 1:25 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
Heb 1:1 Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets,
Heb 1:2 but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, throughwhom also he created the world.
Heb 1:3 He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe
by the word of his power. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high,
Heb 1:4 having become as much superior to angels as the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs.
Heb 1:5 For to which of the angels did God ever say, "You are my Son, today I have begotten you"? Or again, "I
will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son"?
Heb 1:6 And again, when he brings the firstborn into the world, he says, "Let all God's angels worship him."
Heb 1:7 Of the angels he says, "He makes his angels winds, and his ministers a flame of fire."
Heb 1:8 But of the Son he says, "Your throne, O God, is forever and ever, the scepter of uprightness is the
scepter of your kingdom.
Heb 1:9 You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness; therefore God, your God, has anointed you with
the oil of gladness beyond your companions."
Heb 1:10 And, "You, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the work of
your hands;
Heb 1:11 they will perish, but you remain; they will all wear out like a garment,
Heb 1:12 like a robe you will roll them up, like a garment they will be changed. But you are the same, and your
years will have no end."
Heb 1:13 And to which of the angels has he ever said, "Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a
footstool for your feet"?
Heb 1:14 Are they not all ministering spirits sent out to serve for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation?
Heb 2:1 Therefore we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard, lest we drift away from it.
Heb 2:2 For since the message declared by angels proved to be reliable and every transgression or
disobedience received a just retribution,
Heb 2:3 how shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It was declared at first by the Lord, and it
was attested to us by those who heard,
Heb 2:4 while God also bore witness by signs and wonders and various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit
distributed according to his will.
Heb 2:5 Now it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking.
Heb 2:6 It has been testified somewhere, "What is man, that you are mindful of him, or the son of man, that you
care for him?
Heb 2:7 You made him for a little while lower than the angels; you have crowned him with glory and honor,
Heb 2:8 putting everything in subjection under his feet." Now in putting everything in subjection to him, he left
nothing outside his control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him.
Heb 2:9 But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with
glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone.
Heb 2:10 For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should
make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering.
Heb 2:11 For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one origin. That is why he is not ashamed
to call them brothers,
Heb 2:12 saying, "I will tell of your name to my brothers; in the midst of the congregation I will sing your praise."
Heb 2:13 And again, "I will put my trust in him." And again, "Behold, I and the children God has given me."
Heb 2:14 Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things,
that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil,
Heb 2:15 and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery.
Heb 2:16 For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham.
Heb 2:17 Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful
and faithful high priest in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people.
Heb 2:18 For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted.
Heb 3:1 Therefore, holy brothers, you who share in a heavenly calling, consider Jesus, the apostle and high
priest of our confession,
Heb 3:2 who was faithful to him who appointed him, just as Moses also was faithful in all God's house.
Heb 3:3 For Jesus has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses- as much more glory as the builder of a
house has more honor than the house itself.
Heb 3:4 (For every house is built by someone, but the builder of all things is God.)
Heb 3:5 Now Moses was faithful in all God's house as a servant, to testify to the things that were to be spoken
later,
Heb 3:6 but Christ is faithful over God's house as a son. And we are his house if indeed we hold fast our
confidence and our boasting in our hope.
Heb 3:7 Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says, "Today, if you hear his voice,Heb 3:8 do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, on the day of testing in the wilderness,
Heb 3:9 where your fathers put me to the test and saw my works
Heb 3:10 for forty years. Therefore I was provoked with that generation, and said, 'They always go astray in
their heart; they have not known my ways.'
Heb 3:11 As I swore in my wrath, 'They shall not enter my rest.'"
Heb 3:12 Take care, brothers, lest there be in any of you an evil, unbelieving heart, leading you to fall away from
the living God.
Heb 3:13 But exhort one another every day, as long as it is called "today," that none of you may be hardened by
the deceitfulness of sin.
Heb 3:14 For we share in Christ, if indeed we hold our original confidence firm to the end.
Heb 3:15 As it is said, "Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion."
Heb 3:16 For who were those who heard and yet rebelled? Was it not all those who left Egypt led by Moses?
Heb 3:17 And with whom was he provoked for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies fell
in the wilderness?
Heb 3:18 And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest, but to those who were disobedient?
Heb 3:19 So we see that they were unable to enter because of unbelief.
Heb 4:1 Therefore, while the promise of entering his rest still stands, let us fear lest any of you should seem to
have failed to reach it.
Heb 4:2 For good news came to us just as to them, but the message they heard did not benefit them, because
they were not united by faith with those who listened.
Heb 4:3 For we who have believed enter that rest, as he has said, "As I swore in my wrath, 'They shall not enter
my rest,'" although his works were finished from the foundation of the world.
Heb 4:4 For he has somewhere spoken of the seventh day in this way: "And God rested on the seventh day
from all his works."
Heb 4:5 And again in this passage he said, "They shall not enter my rest."
Heb 4:6 Since therefore it remains for some to enter it, and those who formerly received the good news failed to
enter because of disobedience,
Heb 4:7 again he appoints a certain day, "Today," saying through David so long afterward, in the words already
quoted, "Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts."
Heb 4:8 For if Joshua had given them rest, God would not have spoken of another day later on.
Heb 4:9 So then, there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God,
Heb 4:10 for whoever has entered God's rest has also rested from his works as God did from his.
Heb 4:11 Let us therefore strive to enter that rest, so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience.
Heb 4:12 For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of
soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
Heb 4:13 And no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom
we must give account.
Heb 4:14 Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God,
let us hold fast our confession.
Heb 4:15 For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in
every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin.
Heb 4:16 Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find
grace to help in time of need.
Heb 5:1 For every high priest chosen from among men is appointed to act on behalf of men in relation to God,
to offer gifts and sacrifices for sins.
Heb 5:2 He can deal gently with the ignorant and wayward, since he himself is beset with weakness.
Heb 5:3 Because of this he is obligated to offer sacrifice for his own sins just as he does for those of the people.
Heb 5:4 And no one takes this honor for himself, but only when called by God, just as Aaron was.
Heb 5:5 So also Christ did not exalt himself to be made a high priest, but was appointed by him who said to him,
"You are my Son, today I have begotten you";
Heb 5:6 as he says also in another place, "You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek."
Heb 5:7 In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications, with loud cries and tears, to him
who was able to save him from death, and he was heard because of his reverence.
Heb 5:8 Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered.
Heb 5:9 And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him,
Heb 5:10 being designated by God a high priest after the order of Melchizedek.
Heb 5:11 About this we have much to say, and it is hard to explain, since you have become dull of hearing.
Heb 5:12 For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the basic
principles of the oracles of God. You need milk, not solid food,Heb 5:13 for everyone who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righ teousness, since he is a child.
Heb 5:14 But solid food is for the mature, for those who have their powers of discernment trained by constant
practice to distinguish good from evil.
Heb 6:1 Therefore let us leave the elementary doctrine of Christ and go on to maturity, not laying again a
foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God,
Heb 6:2 and of instruction about washings, the laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead, and eternal
judgment.
Heb 6:3 And this we will do if God permits.
Heb 6:4 For it is impossible to restore again to repentance those who have once been enlightened, who have
tasted the heavenly gift, and have shared in the Holy Spirit,
Heb 6:5 and have tasted the goodness of the word of God and the powers of the age to come,
Heb 6:6 if they then fall away, since they are crucifying once again the Son of God to their own harm and
holding him up to contempt.
Heb 6:7 For land that has drunk the rain that often falls on it, and produces a crop useful to those for whose
sake it is cultivated, receives a blessing from God.
Heb 6:8 But if it bears thorns and thistles, it is worthless and near to being cursed, and its end is to be burned.
Heb 6:9 Though we speak in this way, yet in your case, beloved, we feel sure of better things- things that belong
to salvation.
Heb 6:10 For God is not so unjust as to overlook your work and the love that you showed for his sake in serving
the saints, as you still do.
Heb 6:11 And we desire each one of you to show the same earnestness to have the full assurance of hope until
the end,
Heb 6:12 so that you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the
promises.
Heb 6:13 For when God made a promise to Abraham, since he had no one greater by whom to swear, he swore
by himself,
Heb 6:14 saying, "Surely I will bless you and multiply you."
Heb 6:15 And thus Abraham, having patiently waited, obtained the promise.
Heb 6:16 For people swear by something greater than themselves, and in all their disputes an oath is final for
confirmation.
Heb 6:17 So when God desired to show more convincingly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeable
character of his purpose, he guaranteed it with an oath,
Heb 6:18 so that by two unchangeable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have fled for
refuge might have strong encouragement to hold fast to the hope set before us.
Heb 6:19 We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place
behind the curtain,
Heb 6:20 where Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf, having become a high priest forever after the
order of Melchizedek.
Heb 7:1 For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, met Abraham returning from the
slaughter of the kings and blessed him,
Heb 7:2 and to him Abraham apportioned a tenth part of everything. He is first, by translation of his name, king
of righ teousness, and then he is also king of Salem, that is, king of peace.
Heb 7:3 He is without father or mother or genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but
resembling the Son of God he continues a priest forever.
Heb 7:4 See how great this man was to whom Abraham the patriarch gave a tenth of the spoils!
Heb 7:5 And those descendants of Levi who receive the priestly office have a commandment in the law to take
tithes from the people, that is, from their brothers, though these also are descended from Abraham.
Heb 7:6 But this man who does not have his descent from them received tithes from Abraham and blessed him
who had the promises.
Heb 7:7 It is beyond dispute that the inferior is blessed by the superior.
Heb 7:8 In the one case tithes are received by mortal men, but in the other case, by one of whom it is testified
that he lives.
Heb 7:9 One might even say that Levi himself, who receives tithes, paid tithes through Abraham,
Heb 7:10 for he was still in the loins of his ancestor when Melchizedek met him.
Heb 7:11 Now if perfection had been attainable through the Levitical priesthood (for under it the people received
the law), what further need would there have been for another priest to arise after the order of Melchizedek,
rather than one named after the order of Aaron?
Heb 7:12 For when there is a change in the priesthood, there is necessarily a change in the law as well.
Heb 7:13 For the one of whom these things are spoken belonged to another tribe, from which no one has everserved at the altar.
Heb 7:14 For it is evident that our Lord was descended from Judah, and in connection with that tribe Moses said
nothing about priests.
Heb 7:15 This becomes even more evident when another priest arises in the likeness of Melchizedek,
Heb 7:16 who has become a priest, not on the basis of a legal requirement concerning bodily descent, but by
the power of an indestructible life.
Heb 7:17 For it is witnessed of him, "You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek."
Heb 7:18 On the one hand, a former commandment is set aside because of its weakness and uselessness
Heb 7:19 (for the law made nothing perfect); but on the other hand, a better hope is introduced, through which
we draw near to God.
Heb 7:20 And it was not without an oath. For those who formerly became priests were made such without an
oath,
Heb 7:21 but this one was made a priest with an oath by the one who said to him: "The Lord has sworn and will
not change his mind, 'You are a priest forever.'"
Heb 7:22 This makes Jesus the guarantor of a better covenant.
Heb 7:23 The former priests were many in number, because they were prevented by death from continuing in
office,
Heb 7:24 but he holds his priesthood permanently, because he continues forever.
Heb 7:25 Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he
always lives to make intercession for them.
Heb 7:26 For it was indeed fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent, unstained, separated
from sinners, and exalted above the heavens.
Heb 7:27 He has no need, like those high priests, to offer sacrifices daily, first for his own sins and then for
those of the people, since he did this once for all when he offered up himself.
Heb 7:28 For the law appoints men in their weakness as high priests, but the word of the oath, which came later
than the law, appoints a Son who has been made perfect forever.
Heb 8:1 Now the point in what we are saying is this: we have such a high priest, one who is seated at the right
hand of the throne of the Majesty in heaven,
Heb 8:2 a minister in the holy places, in the true tent that the Lord set up, not man.
Heb 8:3 For every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices; thus it is necessary for this priest also to
have something to offer.
Heb 8:4 Now if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, since there are priests who offer gifts according
to the law.
Heb 8:5 They serve a copy and shadow of the heavenly things. For when Moses was about to erect the tent, he
was instructed by God, saying, "See that you make everything according to the pattern that was shown you on
the mountain."
Heb 8:6 But as it is, Christ has obtained a ministry that is as much more excellent than the old as the covenant
he mediates is better, since it is enacted on better promises.
Heb 8:7 For if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion to look for a second.
Heb 8:8 For he finds fault with them when he says: "Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will
establish a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah,
Heb 8:9 not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring
them out of the land of Egypt. For they did not continue in my covenant, and so I showed no concern for them,
declares the Lord.
Heb 8:10 For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord: I
will put my laws into their minds, and write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my
people.
Heb 8:11 And they shall not teach, each one his neighbor and each one his brother, saying, 'Know the Lord,' for
they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest.
Heb 8:12 For I will be merciful toward their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more."
Heb 8:13 In speaking of a new covenant, he makes the first one obsolete. And what is becoming obsolete and
growing old is ready to vanish away.
Heb 9:1 Now even the first covenant had regulations for worship and an earthly place of holiness.
Heb 9:2 For a tent was prepared, the first section, in which were the lampstand and the table and the bread of
the Presence. It is called the Holy Place.
Heb 9:3 Behind the second curtain was a second section called the Most Holy Place,
Heb 9:4 having the golden altar of incense and the ark of the covenant covered on all sides with gold, in which
was a golden urn holding the manna, and Aaron's staff that budded, and the tablets of the covenant.
Heb 9:5 Above it were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy seat. Of these things we cannot nowspeak in detail.
Heb 9:6 These preparations having thus been made, the priests go regularly into the first section, performing
their ritual duties,
Heb 9:7 but into the second only the high priest goes, and he but once a year, and not without taking blood,
which he offers for himself and for the unintentional sins of the people.
Heb 9:8 By this the Holy Spirit indicates that the way into the holy places is not yet opened as long as the first
section is still standing
Heb 9:9 (which is symbolic for the present age). According to this arrangement, gifts and sacrifices are offered
that cannot perfect the conscience of the worshiper,
Heb 9:10 but deal only with food and drink and various washings, regulations for the body imposed until the time
of reformation.
Heb 9:11 But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things that have come, then through the greater
and more perfect tent ( not made with hands, that is, not of this creation)
Heb 9:12 he entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves but by
means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption.
Heb 9:13 For if the sprinkling of defiled persons with the blood of goats and bulls and with the ashes of a heifer
sanctifies for the purification of the flesh,
Heb 9:14 how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish
to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God.
Heb 9:15 Therefore he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the
promised eternal inheritance, since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed
under the first covenant.
Heb 9:16 For where a will is involved, the death of the one who made it must be established.
Heb 9:17 For a will takes effect only at death, since it is not in force as long as the one who made it is alive.
Heb 9:18 Therefore not even the first covenant was inaugurated without blood.
Heb 9:19 For when every commandment of the law had been declared by Moses to all the people, he took the
blood of calves and goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the
people,
Heb 9:20 saying, "This is the blood of the covenant that God commanded for you."
Heb 9:21 And in the same way he sprinkled with the blood both the tent and all the vessels used in worship.
Heb 9:22 Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood there
is no forgiveness of sins.
Heb 9:23 Thus it was necessary for the copies of the heavenly things to be purified with these rites, but the
heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.
Heb 9:24 For Christ has entered, not into holy places made with hands, which are copies of the true things, but
into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf.
Heb 9:25 Nor was it to offer himself repeatedly, as the high priest enters the holy places every year with blood
not his own,
Heb 9:26 for then he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the foundation of the world. But as it is, he has
appeared once for all at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
Heb 9:27 And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment,
Heb 9:28 so Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal
with sin but to save those who are eagerly waiting for him.
Heb 10:1 For since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come instead of the true form of these
realities, it can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who
draw near.
Heb 10:2 Otherwise, would they not have ceased to be offered, since the worshipers, having once been
cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness of sin?
Heb 10:3 But in these sacrifices there is a reminder of sin every year.
Heb 10:4 For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.
Heb 10:5 Consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said, "Sacrifices and offerings you have not
desired, but a body have you prepared for me;
Heb 10:6 in burnt offerings and sin offerings you have taken no pleasure.
Heb 10:7 Then I said, 'Behold, I have come to do your will, O God, as it is written of me in the scroll of the
book.'"
Heb 10:8 When he said above, "You have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices and offerings and
burnt offerings and sin offerings" (these are offered according to the law),
Heb 10:9 then he added, "Behold, I have come to do your will." He abolishes the first in order to establish the
second.Heb 10:10 And by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
Heb 10:11 And every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never
take away sins.
Heb 10:12 But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of
God,
Heb 10:13 waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet.
Heb 10:14 For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified.
Heb 10:15 And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us; for after saying,
Heb 10:16 "This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws
on their hearts, and write them on their minds,"
Heb 10:17 then he adds, "I will remember their sins and their lawless deeds no more."
Heb 10:18 Where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering for sin.
Heb 10:19 Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus,
Heb 10:20 by the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh,
Heb 10:21 and since we have a great priest over the house of God,
Heb 10:22 let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an
evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water.
Heb 10:23 Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful.
Heb 10:24 And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works,
Heb 10:25 not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the
more as you see the Day drawing near.
Heb 10:26 For if we go on sinning deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer
remains a sacrifice for sins,
Heb 10:27 but a fearful expectation of judgment, and a fury of fire that will consume the adversaries.
Heb 10:28 Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without mercy on the evidence of two or three
witnesses.
Heb 10:29 How much worse punishment, do you think, will be deserved by the one who has spurned the Son of
God, and has profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and has outraged the Spirit of
grace?
Heb 10:30 For we know him who said, "Vengeance is mine; I will repay." And again, "The Lord will judge his
people."
Heb 10:31 It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
Heb 10:32 But recall the former days when, after you were enlightened, you endured a hard struggle with
sufferings,
Heb 10:33 sometimes being publicly exposed to reproach and affliction, and sometimes being partners with
those so treated.
Heb 10:34 For you had compassion on those in prison, and you joyfully accepted the plundering of your
property, since you knew that you yourselves had a better possession and an abiding one.
Heb 10:35 Therefore do not throw away your confidence, which has a great reward.
Heb 10:36 For you have need of endurance, so that when you have done the will of God you may receive what
is promised.
Heb 10:37 For, "Yet a little while, and the coming one will come and will not delay;
Heb 10:38 but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him."
Heb 10:39 But we are not of those who shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve
their souls.
Heb 11:1 Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen.
Heb 11:2 For by it the people of old received their commendation.
Heb 11:3 By faith we understand that the universe was created by the word of God, so that what is seen was
not made out of things that are visible.
Heb 11:4 By faith Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, through which he was
commended as righteous, God commending him by accepting his gifts. And through his faith, though he died, he
still speaks.
Heb 11:5 By faith Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death, and he was not found, because God
had taken him. Now before he was taken he was commended as having pleased God.
Heb 11:6 And without faith it is impossible to please him, for whoever would draw near to God must believe that
he exists and that he rewards those who seek him.
Heb 11:7 By faith Noah, being warned by God concerning events as yet unseen, in reverent fear constructed an
ark for the saving of his household. By this he condemned the world and became an heir of the righ teousness
that comes by faith.Heb 11:8 By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place that he was to receive as an
inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going.
Heb 11:9 By faith he went to live in the land of promise, as in a foreign land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob,
heirs with him of the same promise.
Heb 11:10 For he was looking forward to the city that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God.
Heb 11:11 By faith Sarah herself received power to conceive, even when she was past the age, since she
considered him faithful who had promised.
Heb 11:12 Therefore from one man, and him as good as dead, were born descendants as many as the stars of
heaven and as many as the innumerable grains of sand by the seashore.
Heb 11:13 These all died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted
them from afar, and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth.
Heb 11:14 For people who speak thus make it clear that they are seeking a homeland.
Heb 11:15 If they had been thinking of that land from which they had gone out, they would have had opportunity
to return.
Heb 11:16 But as it is, they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be
called their God, for he has prepared for them a city.
Heb 11:17 By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises was
in the act of offering up his only son,
Heb 11:18 of whom it was said, "Through Isaac shall your offspring be named."
Heb 11:19 He considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead, from which, figuratively speaking,
he did receive him back.
Heb 11:20 By faith Isaac invoked future blessings on Jacob and Esau.
Heb 11:21 By faith Jacob, when dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, bowing in worship over the head of
his staff.
Heb 11:22 By faith Joseph, at the end of his life, made mention of the exodus of the Israelites and gave
directions concerning his bones.
Heb 11:23 By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents, because they saw
that the child was beautiful, and they were not afraid of the king's edict.
Heb 11:24 By faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
Heb 11:25 choosing rather to be mistreated with the people of God than to enjoy the fleeting pleasures of sin.
Heb 11:26 He considered the reproach of Christ greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt, for he was looking
to the reward.
Heb 11:27 By faith he left Egypt, not being afraid of the anger of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is
invisible.
Heb 11:28 By faith he kept the Passover and sprinkled the blood, so that the Destroyer of the firstborn might not
touch them.
Heb 11:29 By faith the people crossed the Red Sea as if on dry land, but the Egyptians, when they attempted to
do the same, were drowned.
Heb 11:30 By faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they had been encircled for seven days.
Heb 11:31 By faith Rahab the prostitute did not perish with those who were disobedient, because she had given
a friendly welcome to the spies.
Heb 11:32 And what more shall I say? For time would fail me to tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, of
David and Samuel and the prophetsHeb 11:33 who through faith conquered kingdoms, enforced justice, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of
lions,
Heb 11:34 quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong out of weakness,
became mighty in war, put foreign armies to flight.
Heb 11:35 Women received back their dead by resurrection. Some were tortured, refusing to accept release, so
that they might rise again to a better life.
Heb 11:36 Others suffered mocking and flogging, and even chains and imprisonment.
Heb 11:37 They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were killed with the sword. They went about in skins
of sheep and goats, destitute, afflicted, mistreatedHeb 11:38 of whom the world was not worthy- wandering about in deserts and mountains, and in dens and
caves of the earth.
Heb 11:39 And all these, though commended through their faith, did not receive what was promised,
Heb 11:40 since God had provided something better for us, that apart from us they should not be made perfect.
Heb 12:1 Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every
weight, and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,
Heb 12:2 looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before himendured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God.
Heb 12:3 Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow
weary or fainthearted.
Heb 12:4 In your struggle against sin you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood.
Heb 12:5 And have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons? "My son, do not regard lightly the
discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him.
Heb 12:6 For the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and chastises every son whom he receives."
Heb 12:7 It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his
father does not discipline?
Heb 12:8 If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and
not sons.
Heb 12:9 Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us and we respected them. Shall we not
much more be subject to the Father of spirits and live?
Heb 12:10 For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to them, but he disciplines us for our good,
that we may share his holiness.
Heb 12:11 For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit
of righteousness to those who have been trained by it.
Heb 12:12 Therefore lift your drooping hands and strengthen your weak knees,
Heb 12:13 and make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be put out of joint but rather be
healed.
Heb 12:14 Strive for peace with everyone, and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord.
Heb 12:15 See to it that no one fails to obtain the grace of God; that no "root of bitterness" springs up and
causes trouble, and by it many become defiled;
Heb 12:16 that no one is sexually immoral or unholy like Esau, who sold his birthright for a single meal.
Heb 12:17 For you know that afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found
no chance to repent, though he sought it with tears.
Heb 12:18 For you have not come to what may be touched, a blazing fire and darkness and gloom and a
tempest
Heb 12:19 and the sound of a trumpet and a voice whose words made the hearers beg that no further
messages be spoken to them.
Heb 12:20 For they could not endure the order that was given, "If even a beast touches the mountain, it shall be
stoned."
Heb 12:21 Indeed, so terrifying was the sight that Moses said, "I tremble with fear."
Heb 12:22 But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to
innumerable angels in festal gathering,
Heb 12:23 and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to
the spirits of the righteous made perfect,
Heb 12:24 and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word
than the blood of Abel.
Heb 12:25 See that you do not refuse him who is speaking. For if they did not escape when they refused him
who warned them on earth, much less will we escape if we reject him who warns from heaven.
Heb 12:26 At that time his voice shook the earth, but now he has promised, "Yet once more I will shake not only
the earth but also the heavens."
Heb 12:27 This phrase, "Yet once more," indicates the removal of things that are shaken- that is, things that
have been made- in order that the things that cannot be shaken may remain.
Heb 12:28 Therefore let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, and thus let us offer to
God acceptable worship, with reverence and awe,
Heb 12:29 for our God is a consuming fire.
Heb 13:1 Let brotherly love continue.
Heb 13:2 Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares.
Heb 13:3 Remember those who are in prison, as though in prison with them, and those who are mistreated,
since you also are in the body.
Heb 13:4 Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the
sexually immoral and adulterous.
Heb 13:5 Keep your life free from love of money, and be content with what you have, for he has said, "I will
never leave you nor forsake you."
Heb 13:6 So we can confidently say, "The Lord is my helper; I will not fear; what can man do to me?"
Heb 13:7 Remember your leaders, those who spoke to you the word of God. Consider the outcome of their way
of life, and imitate their faith.Heb 13:8 Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever.
Heb 13:9 Do not be led away by diverse and strange teachings, for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by
grace, not by foods, which have not benefited those devoted to them.
Heb 13:10 We have an altar from which those who serve the tent have no right to eat.
Heb 13:11 For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the holy places by the high priest as a
sacrifice for sin are burned outside the camp.
Heb 13:12 So Jesus also suffered outside the gate in order to sanctify the people through his own blood.
Heb 13:13 Therefore let us go to him outside the camp and bear the reproach he endured.
Heb 13:14 For here we have no lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come.
Heb 13:15 Through him then let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of lips that
acknowledge his name.
Heb 13:16 Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for such sacrifices are pleasing to God.
Heb 13:17 Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your souls, as those who will
have to give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to
you.
Heb 13:18 Pray for us, for we are sure that we have a clear conscience, desiring to act honorably in all things.
Heb 13:19 I urge you the more earnestly to do this in order that I may be restored to you the sooner.
Heb 13:20 Now may the God of peace who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of
the sheep, by the blood of the eternal covenant,
Heb 13:21 equip you with everything good that you may do his will, working in us that which is pleasing in his
sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.
Heb 13:22 I appeal to you, brothers, bear with my word of exhortation, for I have written to you briefly.
Heb 13:23 You should know that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom I shall see you if he comes
soon.
Heb 13:24 Greet all your leaders and all the saints. Those who come from Italy send you greetings.
Heb 13:25 Grace be with all of you.
Jam 1:1 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the twelve tribes in the Dispersion:
Greetings.
Jam 1:2 Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds,
Jam 1:3 for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness.
Jam 1:4 And let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing.
Jam 1:5 If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be
given him.
Jam 1:6 But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven
and tossed by the wind.
Jam 1:7 For that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord;
Jam 1:8 he is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways.
Jam 1:9 Let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation,
Jam 1:10 and the rich in his humiliation, because like a flower of the grass he will pass away.
Jam 1:11 For the sun rises with its scorching heat and withers the grass; its flower falls, and its beauty perishes.
So also will the rich man fade away in the midst of his pursuits.
Jam 1:12 Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test he will receive
the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love him.
Jam 1:13 Let no one say when he is tempted, "I am being tempted by God," for God cannot be tempted with
evil, and he himself tempts no one.
Jam 1:14 But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire.
Jam 1:15 Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death.
Jam 1:16 Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers.
Jam 1:17 Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights with whom
there is no variation or shadow due to change.
Jam 1:18 Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his
creation.
Jam 1:19 Know this, my beloved brothers: let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger;
Jam 1:20 for the anger of man does not produce the righteousness that God requires.
Jam 1:21 Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted
word, which is able to save your souls.
Jam 1:22 But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves.
Jam 1:23 For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks intently at his natural
face in a mirror.Jam 1:24 For he looks at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like.
Jam 1:25 But the one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres, being no hearer who
forgets but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing.
Jam 1:26 If anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this person's
religion is worthless.
Jam 1:27 Religion that is pure and undefiled before God and the Father is this: to visit orphans and widows in
their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained from the world.
Jam 2:1 My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory.
Jam 2:2 For if a man wearing a gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby
clothing also comes in,
Jam 2:3 and if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and say, "You sit here in a good place,"
while you say to the poor man, "You stand over there," or, "Sit down at my feet,"
Jam 2:4 have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts?
Jam 2:5 Listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith and
heirs of the kingdom, which he has promised to those who love him?
Jam 2:6 But you have dishonored the poor man. Are not the rich the ones who oppress you, and the ones who
drag you into court?
Jam 2:7 Are they not the ones who blaspheme the honorable name by which you were called?
Jam 2:8 If you really fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself,"
you are doing well.
Jam 2:9 But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors.
Jam 2:10 For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become accountable for all of it.
Jam 2:11 For he who said, "Do not commit adultery," also said, "Do not murder." If you do not commit adultery
but do murder, you have become a transgressor of the law.
Jam 2:12 So speak and so act as those who are to be judged under the law of liberty.
Jam 2:13 For judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment.
Jam 2:14 What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith
save him?
Jam 2:15 If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food,
Jam 2:16 and one of you says to them, "Go in peace, be warmed and filled," without giving them the things
needed for the body, what good is that?
Jam 2:17 So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead.
Jam 2:18 But someone will say, "You have faith and I have works." Show me your faith apart from your works,
and I will show you my faith by my works.
Jam 2:19 You believe that God is one; you do well. Even the demons believe- and shudder!
Jam 2:20 Do you want to be shown, you foolish person, that faith apart from works is useless?
Jam 2:21 Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up his son Isaac on the altar?
Jam 2:22 You see that faith was active along with his works, and faith was completed by his works;
Jam 2:23 and the Scripture was fulfilled that says, "Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as
righteousness"- and he was called a friend of God.
Jam 2:24 You see that a person is justified by works and not by faith alone.
Jam 2:25 And in the same way was not also Rahab the prostitute justified by works when she received the
messengers and sent them out by another way?
Jam 2:26 For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead.
Jam 3:1 Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged
with greater strictness.
Jam 3:2 For we all stumble in many ways, and if anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man,
able also to bridle his whole body.
Jam 3:3 If we put bits into the mouths of horses so that they obey us, we guide their whole bodies as well.
Jam 3:4 Look at the ships also: though they are so large and are driven by strong winds, they are guided by a
very small rudder wherever the will of the pilot directs.
Jam 3:5 So also the tongue is a small member, yet it boasts of great things. How great a forest is set ablaze by
such a small fire!
Jam 3:6 And the tongue is a fire, a world of unrighteousness. The tongue is set among our members, staining
the whole body, setting on fire the entire course of life, and set on fire by hell.
Jam 3:7 For every kind of beast and bird, of reptile and sea creature, can be tamed and has been tamed by
mankind,
Jam 3:8 but no human being can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison.
Jam 3:9 With it we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse people who are made in the likeness of God.Jam 3:10 From the same mouth come blessing and cursing. My brothers, these things ought not to be so.
Jam 3:11 Does a spring pour forth from the same opening both fresh and salt water?
Jam 3:12 Can a fig tree, my brothers, bear olives, or a grapevine produce figs? Neither can a salt pond yield
fresh water.
Jam 3:13 Who is wise and understanding among you? By his good conduct let him show his works in the
meekness of wisdom.
Jam 3:14 But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast and be false to the
truth.
Jam 3:15 This is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but is earthly, unspiritual, demonic.
Jam 3:16 For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder and every vile practice.
Jam 3:17 But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, open to reason, full of mercy and
good fruits, impartial and sincere.
Jam 3:18 And a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace.
Jam 4:1 What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? Is it not this, that your passions are at war
within you?
Jam 4:2 You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You
do not have, because you do not ask.
Jam 4:3 You ask and do not receive, because you ask wrongly, to spend it on your passions.
Jam 4:4 You adulterous people! Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Therefore
whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God.
Jam 4:5 Or do you suppose it is to no purpose that the Scripture says, "He yearns jealously over the spirit that
he has made to dwell in us"?
Jam 4:6 But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, "God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble."
Jam 4:7 Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.
Jam 4:8 Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your
hearts, you double-minded.
Jam 4:9 Be wretched and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom.
Jam 4:10 Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you.
Jam 4:11 Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. The one who speaks against a brother or judges his
brother, speaks evil against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law
but a judge.
Jam 4:12 There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge
your neighbor?
Jam 4:13 Come now, you who say, "Today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year
there and trade and make a profit"-
Jam 4:14 yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a
little time and then vanishes.
Jam 4:15 Instead you ought to say, "If the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that."
Jam 4:16 As it is, you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil.
Jam 4:17 So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin.
Jam 5:1 Come now, you rich, weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you.
Jam 5:2 Your riches have rotted and your garments are moth-eaten.
Jam 5:3 Your gold and silver have corroded, and their corrosion will be evidence against you and will eat your
flesh like fire. You have laid up treasure in the last days.
Jam 5:4 Behold, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud, are crying out
against you, and the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord of hosts.
Jam 5:5 You have lived on the earth in luxury and in self-indulgence. You have fattened your hearts in a day of
slaughter.
Jam 5:6 You have condemned; you have murdered the righteous person. He does not resist you.
Jam 5:7 Be patient, therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious
fruit of the earth, being patient about it, until it receives the early and the late rains.
Jam 5:8 You also, be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand.
Jam 5:9 Do not grumble against one another, brothers, so that you may not be judged; behold, the Judge is
standing at the door.
Jam 5:10 As an example of suffering and patience, brothers, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the
Lord.
Jam 5:11 Behold, we consider those blessed who remained steadfast. You have heard of the steadfastness of
Job, and you have seen the purpose of the Lord, how the Lord is compassionate and merciful.
Jam 5:12 But above all, my brothers, do not swear, either by heaven or by earth or by any other oath, but letyour "yes" be yes and your "no" be no, so that you may not fall under condemnation.
Jam 5:13 Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise.
Jam 5:14 Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him,
anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.
Jam 5:15 And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has
committed sins, he will be forgiven.
Jam 5:16 Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The
prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working.
Jam 5:17 Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain, and for three
years and six months it did not rain on the earth.
Jam 5:18 Then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit.
Jam 5:19 My brothers, if anyone among you wanders from the truth and someone brings him back,
Jam 5:20 let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering will save his soul from death and
will cover a multitude of sins.
1Pe 1:1 Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ,To those who are elect exiles of the dispersion in Pontus, Galatia,
Cap-padocia, Asia, and Bithynia,
1Pe 1:2 accord ing to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spir-it, for obedience to
Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood: May grace and peace be multiplied to you.
1Pe 1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! According to his great mercy, he has caused
us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
1Pe 1:4 to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you,
1Pe 1:5 who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last
time.
1Pe 1:6 In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, as was necessary, you have been grieved by various
trials,
1Pe 1:7 so that the tested genuineness of your faith- more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested
by fire- may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ.
1Pe 1:8 Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and
rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory,
1Pe 1:9 obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls.
1Pe 1:10 Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours
searched and inquired carefully,
1Pe 1:11 inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the
sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories.
1Pe 1:12 It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves but you, in the things that have now
been announced to you through those who preached the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven,
things into which angels long to look.
1Pe 1:13 Therefore, preparing your minds for action, and being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace
that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ.
1Pe 1:14 As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance,
1Pe 1:15 but as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct,
1Pe 1:16 since it is written, "You shall be holy, for I am holy."
1Pe 1:17 And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct
yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile,
1Pe 1:18 knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with
perishable things such as silver or gold,
1Pe 1:19 but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot.
1Pe 1:20 He was foreknown before the foundation of the world but was made manifest in the last times for your
sake,
1Pe 1:21 who through him are believers in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your
faith and hope are in God.
1Pe 1:22 Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one another
earnestly from a pure heart,
1Pe 1:23 since you have been born again, not of perishable seed but of imperishable, through the living and
abiding word of God;
1Pe 1:24 for "All flesh is like grass and all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers, and the flower
falls,
1Pe 1:25 but the word of the Lord remains forever." And this word is the good news that was preached to you.
1Pe 2:1 So put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander.1Pe 2:2 Like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up to salvation-
1Pe 2:3 if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good.
1Pe 2:4 As you come to him, a living stone rejected by men but in the sight of God chosen and precious,
1Pe 2:5 you yourselves like living stones are being built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer
spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.
1Pe 2:6 For it stands in Scripture: "Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone chosen and precious, and
whoever believes in him will not be put to shame."
1Pe 2:7 So the honor is for you who believe, but for those who do not believe, "The stone that the builders
rejected has become the cornerstone,"
1Pe 2:8 and "A stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense." They stumble because they disobey the word, as
they were destined to do.
1Pe 2:9 But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you
may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light.
1Pe 2:10 Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people; once you had not received mercy, but
now you have received mercy.
1Pe 2:11 Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh, which wage war
against your soul.
1Pe 2:12 Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evil doers,
they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation.
1Pe 2:13 Be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution, whether it be to the emperor as supreme,
1Pe 2:14 or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good.
1Pe 2:15 For this is the will of God, that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people.
1Pe 2:16 Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of
God.
1Pe 2:17 Honor everyone. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the emperor.
1Pe 2:18 Servants, be subject to your masters with all respect, not only to the good and gentle but also to the
unjust.
1Pe 2:19 For this is a gracious thing, when, mindful of God, one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly.
1Pe 2:20 For what credit is it if, when you sin and are beaten for it, you endure? But if when you do good and
suffer for it you endure, this is a gracious thing in the sight of God.
1Pe 2:21 For to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so
that you might follow in his steps.
1Pe 2:22 He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth.
1Pe 2:23 When he was reviled, he did not revile in return; when he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued
entrusting himself to him who judges justly.
1Pe 2:24 He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By
his wounds you have been healed.
1Pe 2:25 For you were straying like sheep, but have now returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls.
1Pe 3:1 Likewise, wives, be subject to your own husbands, so that even if some do not obey the word, they may
be won without a word by the conduct of their wives-
1Pe 3:2 when they see your respectful and pure conduct.
1Pe 3:3 Do not let your adorning be external- the braiding of hair, the wearing of gold, or the putting on of
clothing-
1Pe 3:4 but let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and
quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious.
1Pe 3:5 For this is how the holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves, by submitting to their
husbands,
1Pe 3:6 as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord. And you are her children, if you do good and do not fear
anything that is frightening.
1Pe 3:7 Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the
weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered.
1Pe 3:8 Finally, all of you, have unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love, a tender heart, and a humble mind.
1Pe 3:9 Do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless, for to this you were called,
that you may obtain a blessing.
1Pe 3:10 For "Whoever desires to love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips
from speaking deceit;
1Pe 3:11 let him turn away from evil and do good; let him seek peace and pursue it.
1Pe 3:12 For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayer. But the face of the
Lord is against those who do evil."1Pe 3:13 Now who is there to harm you if you are zealous for what is good?
1Pe 3:14 But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed. Have no fear of them, nor
be troubled,
1Pe 3:15 but in your hearts regard Christ the Lord as holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone
who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you;
1Pe 3:16 yet do it with gentleness and respect, having a good conscience, so that, when you are slandered,
those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame.
1Pe 3:17 For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil.
1Pe 3:18 For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God,
being put to death in the flesh but made alive in the spirit,
1Pe 3:19 in which he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison,
1Pe 3:20 because they formerly did not obey, when God's patience waited in the days of Noah, while the ark
was being prepared, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water.
1Pe 3:21 Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an
appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
1Pe 3:22 who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers having
been subjected to him.
1Pe 4:1 Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever
has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin,
1Pe 4:2 so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh no longer for human passions but for the will of God.
1Pe 4:3 The time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do, living in sensuality, passions,
drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry.
1Pe 4:4 With respect to this they are surprised when you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery, and
they malign you;
1Pe 4:5 but they will give account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead.
1Pe 4:6 For this is why the gospel was preached even to those who are dead, that though judged in the flesh
the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God does.
1Pe 4:7 The end of all things is at hand; therefore be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your
prayers.
1Pe 4:8 Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins.
1Pe 4:9 Show hospitality to one another without grumbling.
1Pe 4:10 As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another, as good stewards of God's varied grace:
1Pe 4:11 whoever speaks, as one who speaks oracles of God; whoever serves, as one who serves by the
strength that God supplies- in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him belong
glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.
1Pe 4:12 Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you, as though
something strange were happening to you.
1Pe 4:13 But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his
glory is revealed.
1Pe 4:14 If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests
upon you.
1Pe 4:15 But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler.
1Pe 4:16 Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name.
1Pe 4:17 For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of God; and if it begins with us, what will be the
outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God?
1Pe 4:18 And "If the righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and the sinner?"
1Pe 4:19 Therefore let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while
doing good.
1Pe 5:1 So I exhort the elders among you, as a fellow elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, as well as
a partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed:
1Pe 5:2 shepherd the flock of God that is among you, exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but willingly,
as God would have you; not for shameful gain, but eagerly;
1Pe 5:3 not domineering over those in your charge, but being examples to the flock.
1Pe 5:4 And when the chief Shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory.
1Pe 5:5 Likewise, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility
toward one another, for "God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble."
1Pe 5:6 Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God so that at the proper time he may exalt
you,
1Pe 5:7 casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you.1Pe 5:8 Be sober-minded; be watchful. Your adversary the devil prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking
someone to devour.
1Pe 5:9 Resist him, firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your
brotherhood throughout the world.
1Pe 5:10 And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory
in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you.
1Pe 5:11 To him be the dominion forever and ever. Amen.
1Pe 5:12 By Silvanus, a faithful brother as I regard him, I have written briefly to you, exhorting and declaring that
this is the true grace of God. Stand firm in it.
1Pe 5:13 She who is at Babylon, who is likewise chosen, sends you greetings, and so does Mark, my son.
1Pe 5:14 Greet one another with the kiss of love. Peace to all of you who are in Christ.
2Pe 1:1 Simeon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, To those who have obtained a faith of equal
standing with ours by the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ:
2Pe 1:2 May grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord.
2Pe 1:3 His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of
him who called us to his own glory and excellence,
2Pe 1:4 by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may
become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful
desire.
2Pe 1:5 For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge,
2Pe 1:6 and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness,
2Pe 1:7 and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love.
2Pe 1:8 For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in
the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2Pe 1:9 For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he is blind, having forgotten that he was
cleansed from his former sins.
2Pe 1:10 Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and election sure, for if you practice
these qualities you will never fall.
2Pe 1:11 For in this way there will be richly provided for you an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord
and Savior Jesus Christ.
2Pe 1:12 Therefore I intend always to remind you of these qualities, though you know them and are established
in the truth that you have.
2Pe 1:13 I think it right, as long as I am in this body, to stir you up by way of reminder,
2Pe 1:14 since I know that the putting off of my body will be soon, as our Lord Jesus Christ made clear to me.
2Pe 1:15 And I will make every effort so that after my departure you may be able at any time to recall these
things.
2Pe 1:16 For we did not follow cleverly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of
our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty.
2Pe 1:17 For when he received honor and glory from God the Father, and the voice was borne to him by the
Majestic Glory, "This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased,"
2Pe 1:18 we ourselves heard this very voice borne from heaven, for we were with him on the holy mountain.
2Pe 1:19 And we have something more sure, the prophetic word, to which you will do well to pay attention as to
a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts,
2Pe 1:20 knowing this first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation.
2Pe 1:21 For no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried
along by the Holy Spirit.
2Pe 2:1 But false prophets also arose among the people, just as there will be false teachers among you, who
will secretly bring in destructive heresies, even denying the Master who bought them, bringing upon themselves
swift destruction.
2Pe 2:2 And many will follow their sensuality, and because of them the way of truth will be blasphemed.
2Pe 2:3 And in their greed they will exploit you with false words. Their condemnation from long ago is not idle,
and their destruction is not asleep.
2Pe 2:4 For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to chains
of gloomy darkness to be kept until the judgment;
2Pe 2:5 if he did not spare the ancient world, but preserved Noah, a herald of righteousness, with seven others,
when he brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly;
2Pe 2:6 if by turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes he condemned them to extinction, making
them an example of what is going to happen to the ungodly;
2Pe 2:7 and if he rescued righteous Lot, greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the wicked2Pe 2:8 (for as that righteous man lived among them day after day, he was tormenting his righ teous soul over
their lawless deeds that he saw and heard);
2Pe 2:9 then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials, and to keep the unrighteous under punishment
until the day of judgment,
2Pe 2:10 and especially those who indulge in the lust of defiling passion and despise authority. Bold and willful,
they do not tremble as they blaspheme the glorious ones,
2Pe 2:11 whereas angels, though greater in might and power, do not pronounce a blasphemous judgment
against them before the Lord.
2Pe 2:12 But these, like irrational animals, creatures of instinct, born to be caught and destroyed, blaspheming
about matters of which they are ignorant, will also be destroyed in their destruction,
2Pe 2:13 suffering wrong as the wage for their wrongdoing. They count it pleasure to revel in the daytime. They
are blots and blemishes, reveling in their deceptions, while they feast with you.
2Pe 2:14 They have eyes full of adultery, insatiable for sin. They entice unsteady souls. They have hearts
trained in greed. Accursed children!
2Pe 2:15 Forsaking the right way, they have gone astray. They have followed the way of Balaam, the son of
Beor, who loved gain from wrongdoing,
2Pe 2:16 but was rebuked for his own transgression; a speechless donkey spoke with human voice and
restrained the prophet's madness.
2Pe 2:17 These are waterless springs and mists driven by a storm. For them the gloom of utter darkness has
been reserved.
2Pe 2:18 For, speaking loud boasts of folly, they entice by sensual passions of the flesh those who are barely
escaping from those who live in error.
2Pe 2:19 They promise them freedom, but they themselves are slaves of corruption. For whatever overcomes a
person, to that he is enslaved.
2Pe 2:20 For if, after they have escaped the defilements of the world through the knowledge of our Lord and
Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled in them and overcome, the last state has become worse for them
than the first.
2Pe 2:21 For it would have been better for them never to have known the way of righteousness than after
knowing it to turn back from the holy commandment delivered to them.
2Pe 2:22 What the true proverb says has happened to them: "The dog returns to its own vomit, and the sow,
after washing herself, returns to wallow in the mire."
2Pe 3:1 This is now the second letter that I am writing to you, beloved. In both of them I am stirring up your
sincere mind by way of reminder,
2Pe 3:2 that you should remember the predictions of the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and
Savior through your apostles,
2Pe 3:3 knowing this first of all, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing, following their own sinful
desires.
2Pe 3:4 They will say, "Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things are
continuing as they were from the beginning of creation."
2Pe 3:5 For they deliberately overlook this fact, that the heavens existed long ago, and the earth was formed
out of water and through water by the word of God,
2Pe 3:6 and that by means of these the world that then existed was deluged with water and perished.
2Pe 3:7 But by the same word the heavens and earth that now exist are stored up for fire, being kept until the
day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly.
2Pe 3:8 But do not overlook this one fact, beloved, that with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a
thousand years as one day.
2Pe 3:9 The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing
that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance.
2Pe 3:10 But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the
heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it will be
exposed.
2Pe 3:11 Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness
and godliness,
2Pe 3:12 waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be set on
fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn!
2Pe 3:13 But according to his promise we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness
dwells.
2Pe 3:14 Therefore, beloved, since you are waiting for these, be diligent to be found by him without spot or
blemish, and at peace.2Pe 3:15 And count the patience of our Lord as salvation, just as our beloved brother Paul also wrote to you
according to the wisdom given him,
2Pe 3:16 as he does in all his letters when he speaks in them of these matters. There are some things in them
that are hard to understand, which the ignorant and unstable twist to their own destruction, as they do the other
Scriptures.
2Pe 3:17 You therefore, beloved, knowing this beforehand, take care that you are not carried away with the
error of lawless people and lose your own stability.
2Pe 3:18 But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be the glory both
now and to the day of eternity. Amen.
1Jo 1:1 That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we
looked upon and have touched with our hands, concerning the word of life-
1Jo 1:2 the life was made manifest, and we have seen it, and testify to it and proclaim to you the eternal life,
which was with the Father and was made manifest to us-
1Jo 1:3 that which we have seen and heard we proclaim also to you, so that you too may have fellowship with
us; and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ.
1Jo 1:4 And we are writing these things so that our joy may be complete.
1Jo 1:5 This is the message we have heard from him and proclaim to you, that God is light, and in him is no
darkness at all.
1Jo 1:6 If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth.
1Jo 1:7 But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of
Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin.
1Jo 1:8 If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us.
1Jo 1:9 If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all
unrighteousness.
1Jo 1:10 If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.
1Jo 2:1 My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we
have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.
1Jo 2:2 He is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only but also for the sins of the whole world.
1Jo 2:3 And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we keep his commandments.
1Jo 2:4 Whoever says "I know him" but does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him,
1Jo 2:5 but whoever keeps his word, in him truly the love of God is perfected. By this we may be sure that we
are in him:
1Jo 2:6 whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he walked.
1Jo 2:7 Beloved, I am writing you no new commandment, but an old commandment that you had from the
beginning. The old commandment is the word that you have heard.
1Jo 2:8 At the same time, it is a new commandment that I am writing to you, which is true in him and in you,
because the darkness is passing away and the true light is already shining.
1Jo 2:9 Whoever says he is in the light and hates his brother is still in darkness.
1Jo 2:10 Whoever loves his brother abides in the light, and in him there is no cause for stumbling.
1Jo 2:11 But whoever hates his brother is in the darkness and walks in the darkness, and does not know where
he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes.
1Jo 2:12 I am writing to you, little children, because your sins are forgiven for his name's sake.
1Jo 2:13 I am writing to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning. I am writing to you,
young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I write to you, children, because you know the Father.
1Jo 2:14 I write to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men,
because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the evil one.
1Jo 2:15 Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not
in him.
1Jo 2:16 For all that is in the world- the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride in
possessions- is not from the Father but is from the world.
1Jo 2:17 And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever.
1Jo 2:18 Children, it is the last hour, and as you have heard that antichrist is coming, so now many antichrists
have come. Therefore we know that it is the last hour.
1Jo 2:19 They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would have continued
with us. But they went out, that it might become plain that they all are not of us.
1Jo 2:20 But you have been anointed by the Holy One, and you all have knowledge.
1Jo 2:21 I write to you, not because you do not know the truth, but because you know it, and because no lie is
of the truth.
1Jo 2:22 Who is the liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the antichrist, he who denies theFather and the Son.
1Jo 2:23 No one who denies the Son has the Father. Whoever confesses the Son has the Father also.
1Jo 2:24 Let what you heard from the beginning abide in you. If what you heard from the beginning abides in
you, then you too will abide in the Son and in the Father.
1Jo 2:25 And this is the promise that he made to us- eternal life.
1Jo 2:26 I write these things to you about those who are trying to deceive you.
1Jo 2:27 But the anointing that you received from him abides in you, and you have no need that anyone should
teach you. But as his anointing teaches you about everything- and is true and is no lie, just as it has taught youabide in him.
1Jo 2:28 And now, little children, abide in him, so that when he appears we may have confidence and not shrink
from him in shame at his coming.
1Jo 2:29 If you know that he is righteous, you may be sure that everyone who practices righ-teousness has
been born of him.
1Jo 3:1 See what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God; and so we
are. The reason why the world does not know us is that it did not know him.
1Jo 3:2 Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared; but we know that when
he appears we will be like him, because we shall see him as he is.
1Jo 3:3 And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure.
1Jo 3:4 Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness; sin is lawlessness.
1Jo 3:5 You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him there is no sin.
1Jo 3:6 No one who abides in him keeps on sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or
known him.
1Jo 3:7 Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righ teousness is righteous, as he is righ
teous.
1Jo 3:8 Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning.
The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil.
1Jo 3:9 No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him, and he cannot keep on
sinning because he has been born of God.
1Jo 3:10 By this it is evident who are the children of God, and who are the children of the devil: whoever does
not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother.
1Jo 3:11 For this is the message that you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another.
1Jo 3:12 We should not be like Cain, who was of the evil one and murdered his brother. And why did he murder
him? Because his own deeds were evil and his brother's righteous.
1Jo 3:13 Do not be surprised, brothers, that the world hates you.
1Jo 3:14 We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brothers. Whoever does not
love abides in death.
1Jo 3:15 Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding
in him.
1Jo 3:16 By this we know love, that he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the
brothers.
1Jo 3:17 But if anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him,
how does God's love abide in him?
1Jo 3:18 Little children, let us not love in word or talk but in deed and in truth.
1Jo 3:19 By this we shall know that we are of the truth and reassure our heart before him;
1Jo 3:20 for whenever our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart, and he knows everything.
1Jo 3:21 Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God;
1Jo 3:22 and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do what pleases
him.
1Jo 3:23 And this is his commandment, that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one
another, just as he has commanded us.
1Jo 3:24 Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in them. And by this we know that he abides
in us, by the Spirit whom he has given us.
1Jo 4:1 Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, for many false
prophets have gone out into the world.
1Jo 4:2 By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is
from God,
1Jo 4:3 and every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the antichrist, which
you heard was coming and now is in the world already.
1Jo 4:4 Little children, you are from God and have overcome them, for he who is in you is greater than he whois in the world.
1Jo 4:5 They are from the world; therefore they speak from the world, and the world listens to them.
1Jo 4:6 We are from God. Whoever knows God listens to us; whoever is not from God does not listen to us. By
this we know the Spirit of truth and the spirit of error.
1Jo 4:7 Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and whoever loves has been born of God and
knows God.
1Jo 4:8 Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is love.
1Jo 4:9 In this the love of God was made manifest among us, that God sent his only Son into the world, so that
we might live through him.
1Jo 4:10 In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation
for our sins.
1Jo 4:11 Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another.
1Jo 4:12 No one has ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides in us and his love is perfected in us.
1Jo 4:13 By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he has given us of his Spirit.
1Jo 4:14 And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world.
1Jo 4:15 Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God.
1Jo 4:16 So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love, and whoever
abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him.
1Jo 4:17 By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have confidence for the day of judgment, because as
he is so also are we in this world.
1Jo 4:18 There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. For fear has to do with punishment, and
whoever fears has not been perfected in love.
1Jo 4:19 We love because he first loved us.
1Jo 4:20 If anyone says, "I love God," and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother
whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen.
1Jo 4:21 And this commandment we have from him: whoever loves God must also love his brother.
1Jo 5:1 Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God, and everyone who loves the
Father loves whomever has been born of him.
1Jo 5:2 By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and obey his commandments.
1Jo 5:3 For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments. And his commandments are not
burdensome.
1Jo 5:4 For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome
the world- our faith.
1Jo 5:5 Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
1Jo 5:6 This is he who came by water and blood- Jesus Christ; not by the water only but by the water and the
blood. And the Spirit is the one who testifies, because the Spirit is the truth.
1Jo 5:7 For there are three that testify:
1Jo 5:8 the Spirit and the water and the blood; and these three agree.
1Jo 5:9 If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater, for this is the testimony of God that
he has borne concerning his Son.
1Jo 5:10 Whoever believes in the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God has
made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God has borne concerning his Son.
1Jo 5:11 And this is the testimony, that God gave us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.
1Jo 5:12 Whoever has the Son has life; whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life.
1Jo 5:13 I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know that you have
eternal life.
1Jo 5:14 And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that if we ask anything according to his will he
hears us.
1Jo 5:15 And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have
asked of him.
1Jo 5:16 If anyone sees his brother committing a sin not leading to death, he shall ask, and God will give him
life- to those who commit sins that do not lead to death. There is sin that leads to death; I do not say that one
should pray for that.
1Jo 5:17 All wrongdoing is sin, but there is sin that does not lead to death.
1Jo 5:18 We know that everyone who has been born of God does not keep on sinning, but he who was born of
God protects him, and the evil one does not touch him.
1Jo 5:19 We know that we are from God, and the whole world lies in the power of the evil one.
1Jo 5:20 And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding, so that we may know
him who is true; and we are in him who is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life.1Jo 5:21 Little children, keep yourselves from idols.
2Jo 1:1 The elder to the elect lady and her children, whom I love in truth, and not only I, but also all who know
the truth,
2Jo 1:2 because of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever:
2Jo 1:3 Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us, from God the Father and from Jesus Christ the Father's Son,
in truth and love.
2Jo 1:4 I rejoiced greatly to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as we were commanded by the
Father.
2Jo 1:5 And now I ask you, dear lady- not as though I were writing you a new commandment, but the one we
have had from the beginning- that we love one another..
2Jo 1:6 And this is love, that we walk according to his commandments; this is the commandment, just as you
have heard from the beginning, so that you should walk in it.
2Jo 1:7 For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ
in the flesh. Such a one is the deceiver and the antichrist.
2Jo 1:8 Watch yourselves, so that you may not lose what we have worked for, but may win a full reward.
2Jo 1:9 Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ, does not have God.
Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and the Son.
2Jo 1:10 If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house or give
him any greeting,
2Jo 1:11 for whoever greets him takes part in his wicked works.
2Jo 1:12 Though I have much to write to you, I would rather not use paper and ink. Instead I hope to come to
you and talk face to face, so that our joy may be complete.
2Jo 1:13 The children of your elect sister greet you.
3Jo 1:1 The elder to the beloved Gaius, whom I love in truth.
3Jo 1:2 Beloved, I pray that all may go well with you and that you may be in good health, as it goes well with
your soul.
3Jo 1:3 For I rejoiced greatly when the brothers came and testified to your truth, as indeed you are walking in
the truth.
3Jo 1:4 I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth.
3Jo 1:5 Beloved, it is a faithful thing you do in all your efforts for these brothers, strangers as they are,
3Jo 1:6 who testified to your love before the church. You will do well to send them on their journey in a manner
worthy of God.
3Jo 1:7 For they have gone out for the sake of the name, accepting nothing from the Gentiles.
3Jo 1:8 Therefore we ought to support people like these, that we may be fellow workers for the truth.
3Jo 1:9 I have written something to the church, but Diotrephes, who likes to put himself first, does not
acknowledge our authority.
3Jo 1:10 So if I come, I will bring up what he is doing, talking wicked nonsense against us. And not content with
that, he refuses to welcome the brothers, and also stops those who want to and puts them out of the church.
3Jo 1:11 Beloved, do not imitate evil but imitate good. Whoever does good is from God; whoever does evil has
not seen God.
3Jo 1:12 Demetrius has received a good testimony from everyone, and from the truth itself. We also add our
testimony, and you know that our testimony is true.
3Jo 1:13 I had much to write to you, but I would rather not write with pen and ink.
3Jo 1:14 I hope to see you soon, and we will talk face to face.
3Jo 1:15 Peace be to you. The friends greet you. Greet the friends, every one of them.
Jud 1:1 Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, To those who are called, beloved in God the
Father and kept for Jesus Christ:
Jud 1:2 May mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you.
Jud 1:3 Beloved, although I was very eager to write to you about our common salvation, I found it necessary to
write appealing to you to contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints.
Jud 1:4 For certain people have crept in unnoticed who long ago were designated for this condemnation,
ungodly people, who pervert the grace of our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus
Christ.
Jud 1:5 Now I want to remind you, although you once fully knew it, that Jesus, who saved a people out of the
land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe.
Jud 1:6 And the angels who did not stay within their own position of authority, but left their proper dwelling, he
has kept in eternal chains under gloomy darkness until the judgment of the great dayJud 1:7 just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities, which likewise indulged in sexual immorality
and pursued unnatural desire, serve as an example by undergoing a punishment of eternal fire.Jud 1:8 Yet in like manner these people also, relying on their dreams, defile the flesh, reject authority, and
blaspheme the glorious ones.
Jud 1:9 But when the archangel Michael, contending with the devil, was disputing about the body of Moses, he
did not presume to pronounce a blasphemous judgment, but said, "The Lord rebuke you."
Jud 1:10 But these people blaspheme all that they do not understand, and they are destroyed by all that they,
like unreasoning animals, understand instinctively.
Jud 1:11 Woe to them! For they walked in the way of Cain and abandoned themselves for the sake of gain to
Balaam's error and perished in Korah's rebellion.
Jud 1:12 These are blemishes on your love feasts, as they feast with you without fear, looking after themselves;
waterless clouds, swept along by winds; fruitless trees in late autumn, twice dead, uprooted;
Jud 1:13 wild waves of the sea, casting up the foam of their own shame; wandering stars, for whom the gloom
of utter darkness has been reserved forever.
Jud 1:14 It was also about these that Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied, saying, "Behold, the Lord
came with ten thousands of his holy ones,
Jud 1:15 to execute judgment on all and to convict all the ungodly of all their deeds of ungodliness that they
have committed in such an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things that ungodly sinners have spoken against
him."
Jud 1:16 These are grumblers, malcontents, following their own sinful desires; they are loud-mouthed boasters,
showing favoritism to gain advantage.
Jud 1:17 But you must remember, beloved, the predictions of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Jud 1:18 They said to you, "In the last time there will be scoffers, following their own ungodly passions."
Jud 1:19 It is these who cause divisions, worldly people, devoid of the Spirit.
Jud 1:20 But you, beloved, build yourselves up in your most holy faith; pray in the Holy Spirit;
Jud 1:21 keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal
life.
Jud 1:22 And have mercy on those who doubt;
Jud 1:23 save others by snatching them out of the fire; to others show mercy with fear, hating even the garment
stained by the flesh.
Jud 1:24 Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence
of his glory with great joy,
Jud 1:25 to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority,
before all time and now and forever. Amen.
Rev 1:1 The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants the things that must soon
take place. He made it known by sending his angel to his servant John,
Rev 1:2 who bore witness to the word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw.
Rev 1:3 Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear, and
who keep what is written in it, for the time is near.
Rev 1:4 John to the seven churches that are in Asia: Grace to you and peace from him who is and who was and
who is to come, and from the seven spirits who are before his throne,
Rev 1:5 and from Jesus Christ the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of kings on earth. To
him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood
Rev 1:6 and made us a kingdom, priests to his God and Father, to him be glory and dominion forever and ever.
Amen.
Rev 1:7 Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him, and all
tribes of the earth will wail on account of him. Even so. Amen.
Rev 1:8 "I am the Alpha and the Omega," says the Lord God, "who is and who was and who is to come, the
Almighty."
Rev 1:9 I, John, your brother and partner in the tribulation and the kingdom and the patient endurance that are
in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos on account of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus.
Rev 1:10 I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet
Rev 1:11 saying, "Write what you see in a book and send it to the seven churches, to Ephesus and to Smyrna
and to Pergamum and to Thyatira and to Sardis and to Philadelphia and to Laodicea."
Rev 1:12 Then I turned to see the voice that was speaking to me, and on turning I saw seven golden
lampstands,
Rev 1:13 and in the midst of the lampstands one like a son of man, clothed with a long robe and with a golden
sash around his chest.
Rev 1:14 The hairs of his head were white like wool, as white as snow. His eyes were like a flame of fire,
Rev 1:15 his feet were like burnished bronze, refined in a furnace, and his voice was like the roar of many
waters.Rev 1:16 In his right hand he held seven stars, from his mouth came a sharp two-edged sword, and his face
was like the sun shining in full strength.
Rev 1:17 When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead. But he laid his right hand on me, saying, "Fear not, I
am the first and the last,
Rev 1:18 and the living one. I died, and behold I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of Death and Hades.
Rev 1:19 Write therefore the things that you have seen, those that are and those that are to take place after this.
Rev 1:20 As for the mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands,
the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches.
Rev 2:1 "To the angel of the church in Ephesus write: 'The words of him who holds the seven stars in his right
hand, who walks among the seven golden lampstands.
Rev 2:2 "'I know your works, your toil and your patient endurance, and how you cannot bear with those who are
evil, but have tested those who call themselves apostles and are not, and found them to be false.
Rev 2:3 I know you are enduring patiently and bearing up for my name's sake, and you have not grown weary.
Rev 2:4 But I have this against you, that you have abandoned the love you had at first.
Rev 2:5 Remember therefore from where you have fallen; repent, and do the works you did at first. If not, I will
come to you and remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent.
Rev 2:6 Yet this you have: you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.
Rev 2:7 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers I will
grant to eat of the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God.'
Rev 2:8 "And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write: 'The words of the first and the last, who died and came
to life.
Rev 2:9 "'I know your tribulation and your poverty ( but you are rich) and the slander of those who say that they
are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan.
Rev 2:10 Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison,
that you may be tested, and for ten days you will have tribulation. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the
crown of life.
Rev 2:11 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. The one who conquers will not
be hurt by the second death.'
Rev 2:12 "And to the angel of the church in Pergamum write: 'The words of him who has the sharp two-edged
sword.
Rev 2:13 "'I know where you dwell, where Satan's throne is. Yet you hold fast my name, and you did not deny
my faith even in the days of Antipas my faithful witness, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells.
Rev 2:14 But I have a few things against you: you have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam, who
taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, so that they might eat food sacrificed to idols and
practice sexual immorality.
Rev 2:15 So also you have some who hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans.
Rev 2:16 Therefore repent. If not, I will come to you soon and war against them with the sword of my mouth.
Rev 2:17 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers I will
give some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone, with a new name written on the stone that no
one knows except the one who receives it.'
Rev 2:18 "And to the angel of the church in Thyatira write: 'The words of the Son of God, who has eyes like a
flame of fire, and whose feet are like burnished bronze.
Rev 2:19 "'I know your works, your love and faith and service and patient endurance, and that your latter works
exceed the first.
Rev 2:20 But I have this against you, that you tolerate that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess and
is teaching and seducing my servants to practice sexual immorality and to eat food sacrificed to idols.
Rev 2:21 I gave her time to repent, but she refuses to repent of her sexual immorality.
Rev 2:22 Behold, I will throw her onto a sickbed, and those who commit adultery with her I will throw into great
tribulation, unless they repent of her works,
Rev 2:23 and I will strike her children dead. And all the churches will know that I am he who searches mind and
heart, and I will give to each of you as your works deserve.
Rev 2:24 But to the rest of you in Thyatira, who do not hold this teaching, who have not learned what some call
the deep things of Satan, to you I say, I do not lay on you any other burden.
Rev 2:25 Only hold fast what you have until I come.
Rev 2:26 The one who conquers and who keeps my works until the end, to him I will give authority over the
nations,
Rev 2:27 and he will rule them with a rod of iron, as when earthen pots are broken in pieces, even as I myself
have received authority from my Father.
Rev 2:28 And I will give him the morning star.Rev 2:29 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.'
Rev 3:1 "And to the angel of the church in Sardis write: 'The words of him who has the seven spirits of God and
the seven stars. "'I know your works. You have the reputation of being alive, but you are dead.
Rev 3:2 Wake up, and strengthen what remains and is about to die, for I have not found your works complete in
the sight of my God.
Rev 3:3 Remember, then, what you received and heard. Keep it, and repent. If you will not wake up, I will come
like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come against you.
Rev 3:4 Yet you have still a few names in Sardis, people who have not soiled their garments, and they will walk
with me in white, for they are worthy.
Rev 3:5 The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments, and I will never blot his name out of the
book of life. I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels.
Rev 3:6 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.'
Rev 3:7 "And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: 'The words of the holy one, the true one, who has
the key of David, who opens and no one will shut, who shuts and no one opens.
Rev 3:8 "'I know your works. Behold, I have set before you an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know
that you have but little power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name.
Rev 3:9 Behold, I will make those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews and are not, but liebehold, I will make them come and bow down before your feet and they will learn that I have loved you.
Rev 3:10 Because you have kept my word about patient endurance, I will keep you from the hour of trial that is
coming on the whole world, to try those who dwell on the earth.
Rev 3:11 I am coming soon. Hold fast what you have, so that no one may seize your crown.
Rev 3:12 The one who conquers, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God. Never shall he go out of it,
and I will write on him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which
comes down from my God out of heaven, and my own new name.
Rev 3:13 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.'
Rev 3:14 "And to the angel of the church in Laodicea write: 'The words of the Amen, the faithful and true
witness, the beginning of God's creation.
Rev 3:15 "'I know your works: you are neither cold nor hot. Would that you were either cold or hot!
Rev 3:16 So, because you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth.
Rev 3:17 For you say, I am rich, I have prospered, and I need nothing, not realizing that you are wretched,
pitiable, poor, blind, and naked.
Rev 3:18 I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by fire, so that you may be rich, and white garments so that
you may clothe yourself and the shame of your nakedness may not be seen, and salve to anoint your eyes, so
that you may see.
Rev 3:19 Those whom I love, I reprove and discipline, so be zealous and repent.
Rev 3:20 Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to
him and eat with him, and he with me.
Rev 3:21 The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me on my throne, as I also conquered and sat down
with my Father on his throne.
Rev 3:22 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.'"
Rev 4:1 After this I looked, and behold, a door standing open in heaven! And the first voice, which I had heard
speaking to me like a trumpet, said, "Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this."
Rev 4:2 At once I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne.
Rev 4:3 And he who sat there had the appearance of jasper and carnelian, and around the throne was a
rainbow that had the appearance of an emerald.
Rev 4:4 Around the throne were twenty-four thrones, and seated on the thrones were twenty-four elders,
clothed in white garments, with golden crowns on their heads.
Rev 4:5 From the throne came flashes of lightning, and rumblings and peals of thunder, and before the throne
were burning seven torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God,
Rev 4:6 and before the throne there was as it were a sea of glass, like crystal. And around the throne, on each
side of the throne, are four living creatures, full of eyes in front and behind:
Rev 4:7 the first living creature like a lion, the second living creature like an ox, the third living creature with the
face of a man, and the fourth living creature like an eagle in flight.
Rev 4:8 And the four living creatures, each of them with six wings, are full of eyes all around and within, and day
and night they never cease to say, "Holy, holy, holy, is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come!"
Rev 4:9 And whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to him who is seated on the throne,
who lives forever and ever,
Rev 4:10 the twenty-four elders fall down before him who is seated on the throne and worship him who lives
forever and ever. They cast their crowns before the throne, saying,Rev 4:11 "Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things,
and by your will they existed and were created."
Rev 5:1 Then I saw in the right hand of him who was seated on the throne a scroll written within and on the
back, sealed with seven seals.
Rev 5:2 And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, "Who is worthy to open the scroll and break its
seals?"
Rev 5:3 And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to look into it,
Rev 5:4 and I began to weep loudly because no one was found worthy to open the scroll or to look into it.
Rev 5:5 And one of the elders said to me, "Weep no more; behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of
David, has conquered, so that he can open the scroll and its seven seals."
Rev 5:6 And between the throne and the four living creatures and among the elders I saw a Lamb standing, as
though it had been slain, with seven horns and with seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into
all the earth.
Rev 5:7 And he went and took the scroll from the right hand of him who was seated on the throne.
Rev 5:8 And when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before
the Lamb, each holding a harp, and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints.
Rev 5:9 And they sang a new song, saying, "Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you
were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and
nation,
Rev 5:10 and you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth."
Rev 5:11 Then I looked, and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders the voice of many
angels, numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands,
Rev 5:12 saying with a loud voice, "Worthy is the Lamb who was slain, to receive power and wealth and wisdom
and might and honor and glory and blessing!"
Rev 5:13 And I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea, and all that is
in them, saying, "To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might
forever and ever!"
Rev 5:14 And the four living creatures said, "Amen!" and the elders fell down and worshiped.
Rev 6:1 Now I watched when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living
creatures say with a voice like thunder, "Come!"
Rev 6:2 And I looked, and behold, a white horse! And its rider had a bow, and a crown was given to him, and he
came out conquering, and to conquer.
Rev 6:3 When he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature say, "Come!"
Rev 6:4 And out came another horse, bright red. Its rider was permitted to take peace from the earth, so that
men should slay one another, and he was given a great sword.
Rev 6:5 When he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say, "Come!" And I looked, and behold,
a black horse! And its rider had a pair of scales in his hand.
Rev 6:6 And I heard what seemed to be a voice in the midst of the four living creatures, saying, "A quart of
wheat for a denarius, and three quarts of barley for a denarius, and do not harm the oil and wine!"
Rev 6:7 When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say, "Come!"
Rev 6:8 And I looked, and behold, a pale horse! And its rider's name was Death, and Hades followed him. And
they were given authority over a fourth of the earth, to kill with sword and with famine and with pestilence and by
wild beasts of the earth.
Rev 6:9 When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word
of God and for the witness they had borne.
Rev 6:10 They cried out with a loud voice, "O Sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long before you will judge and
avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth?"
Rev 6:11 Then they were each given a white robe and told to rest a little longer, until the number of their fellow
servants and their brothers should be complete, who were to be killed as they themselves had been.
Rev 6:12 When he opened the sixth seal, I looked, and behold, there was a great earthquake, and the sun
became black as sackcloth, the full moon became like blood,
Rev 6:13 and the stars of the sky fell to the earth as the fig tree sheds its winter fruit when shaken by a gale.
Rev 6:14 The sky vanished like a scroll that is being rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed
from its place.
Rev 6:15 Then the kings of the earth and the great ones and the generals and the rich and the powerful, and
everyone, slave and free, hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains,
Rev 6:16 calling to the mountains and rocks, "Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who is seated on the
throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb,
Rev 6:17 for the great day of their wrath has come, and who can stand?"Rev 7:1 After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding back the four winds of the
earth, that no wind might blow on earth or sea or against any tree.
Rev 7:2 Then I saw another angel ascending from the rising of the sun, with the seal of the living God, and he
called with a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power to harm earth and sea,
Rev 7:3 saying, "Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees, until we have sealed the servants of our God on
their foreheads."
Rev 7:4 And I heard the number of the sealed, 144,000, sealed from every tribe of the sons of Israel:
Rev 7:5 12,000 from the tribe of Judah were sealed, 12,000 from the tribe of Reuben, 12,000 from the tribe of
Gad,
Rev 7:6 12,000 from the tribe of Asher, 12,000 from the tribe of Naphtali, 12,000 from the tribe of Manasseh,
Rev 7:7 12,000 from the tribe of Simeon, 12,000 from the tribe of Levi, 12,000 from the tribe of Issachar,
Rev 7:8 12,000 from the tribe of Zebulun, 12,000 from the tribe of Joseph, 12,000 from the tribe of Benjamin
were sealed.
Rev 7:9 After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number, from every nation, from all
tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with
palm branches in their hands,
Rev 7:10 and crying out with a loud voice, "Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne, and to the
Lamb!"
Rev 7:11 And all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living
creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshiped God,
Rev 7:12 saying, "Amen! Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be
to our God forever and ever! Amen."
Rev 7:13 Then one of the elders addressed me, saying, "Who are these, clothed in white robes, and from where
have they come?"
Rev 7:14 I said to him, "Sir, you know." And he said to me, "These are the ones coming out of the great
tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
Rev 7:15 "Therefore they are before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple; and he who
sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence.
Rev 7:16 They shall hunger no more, neither thirst anymore; the sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching
heat.
Rev 7:17 For the Lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of
living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes."
Rev 8:1 When the Lamb opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour.
Rev 8:2 Then I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them.
Rev 8:3 And another angel came and stood at the altar with a golden censer, and he was given much incense
to offer with the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar before the throne,
Rev 8:4 and the smoke of the incense, with the prayers of the saints, rose before God from the hand of the
angel.
Rev 8:5 Then the angel took the censer and filled it with fire from the altar and threw it on the earth, and there
were peals of thunder, rumblings, flashes of lightning, and an earthquake.
Rev 8:6 Now the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared to blow them.
Rev 8:7 The first angel blew his trumpet, and there followed hail and fire, mixed with blood, and these were
thrown upon the earth. And a third of the earth was burned up, and a third of the trees were burned up, and all
green grass was burned up.
Rev 8:8 The second angel blew his trumpet, and something like a great mountain, burning with fire, was thrown
into the sea, and a third of the sea became blood.
Rev 8:9 A third of the living creatures in the sea died, and a third of the ships were destroyed.
Rev 8:10 The third angel blew his trumpet, and a great star fell from heaven, blazing like a torch, and it fell on a
third of the rivers and on the springs of water.
Rev 8:11 The name of the star is Wormwood. A third of the waters became wormwood, and many people died
from the water, because it had been made bitter.
Rev 8:12 The fourth angel blew his trumpet, and a third of the sun was struck, and a third of the moon, and a
third of the stars, so that a third of their light might be darkened, and a third of the day might be kept from
shining, and likewise a third of the night.
Rev 8:13 Then I looked, and I heard an eagle crying with a loud voice as it flew directly overhead, "Woe, woe,
woe to those who dwell on the earth, at the blasts of the other trumpets that the three angels are about to blow!"
Rev 9:1 And the fifth angel blew his trumpet, and I saw a star fallen from heaven to earth, and he was given the
key to the shaft of the bottomless pit.
Rev 9:2 He opened the shaft of the bottomless pit, and from the shaft rose smoke like the smoke of a greatfurnace, and the sun and the air were darkened with the smoke from the shaft.
Rev 9:3 Then from the smoke came locusts on the earth, and they were given power like the power of scorpions
of the earth.
Rev 9:4 They were told not to harm the grass of the earth or any green plant or any tree, but only those people
who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads.
Rev 9:5 They were allowed to torment them for five months, but not to kill them, and their torment was like the
torment of a scorpion when it stings someone.
Rev 9:6 And in those days people will seek death and will not find it. They will long to die, but death will flee
from them.
Rev 9:7 In appearance the locusts were like horses prepared for battle: on their heads were what looked like
crowns of gold; their faces were like human faces,
Rev 9:8 their hair like women's hair, and their teeth like lions' teeth;
Rev 9:9 they had breastplates like breastplates of iron, and the noise of their wings was like the noise of many
chariots with horses rushing into battle.
Rev 9:10 They have tails and stings like scorpions, and their power to hurt people for five months is in their tails.
Rev 9:11 They have as king over them the angel of the bottomless pit. His name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in
Greek he is called Apollyon.
Rev 9:12 The first woe has passed; behold, two woes are still to come.
Rev 9:13 Then the sixth angel blew his trumpet, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar
before God,
Rev 9:14 saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, "Release the four angels who are bound at the great
river Euphrates."
Rev 9:15 So the four angels, who had been prepared for the hour, the day, the month, and the year, were
released to kill a third of mankind.
Rev 9:16 The number of mounted troops was twice ten thousand times ten thousand; I heard their number.
Rev 9:17 And this is how I saw the horses in my vision and those who rode them: they wore breastplates the
color of fire and of sapphire and of sulfur, and the heads of the horses were like lions' heads, and fire and smoke
and sulfur came out of their mouths.
Rev 9:18 By these three plagues a third of mankind was killed, by the fire and smoke and sulfur coming out of
their mouths.
Rev 9:19 For the power of the horses is in their mouths and in their tails, for their tails are like serpents with
heads, and by means of them they wound.
Rev 9:20 The rest of mankind, who were not killed by these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands
nor give up worshiping demons and idols of gold and silver and bronze and stone and wood, which cannot see
or hear or walk,
Rev 9:21 nor did they repent of their murders or their sorceries or their sexual immorality or their thefts.
Rev 10:1 Then I saw another mighty angel coming down from heaven, wrapped in a cloud, with a rainbow over
his head, and his face was like the sun, and his legs like pillars of fire.
Rev 10:2 He had a little scroll open in his hand. And he set his right foot on the sea, and his left foot on the land,
Rev 10:3 and called out with a loud voice, like a lion roaring. When he called out, the seven thunders sounded.
Rev 10:4 And when the seven thunders had sounded, I was about to write, but I heard a voice from heaven
saying, "Seal up what the seven thunders have said, and do not write it down."
Rev 10:5 And the angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land raised his right hand to heaven
Rev 10:6 and swore by him who lives forever and ever, who created heaven and what is in it, the earth and
what is in it, and the sea and what is in it, that there would be no more delay,
Rev 10:7 but that in the days of the trumpet call to be sounded by the seventh angel, the mystery of God would
be fulfilled, just as he announced to his servants the prophets.
Rev 10:8 Then the voice that I had heard from heaven spoke to me again, saying, "Go, take the scroll that is
open in the hand of the angel who is standing on the sea and on the land."
Rev 10:9 So I went to the angel and told him to give me the little scroll. And he said to me, "Take and eat it; it
will make your stomach bitter, but in your mouth it will be sweet as honey."
Rev 10:10 And I took the little scroll from the hand of the angel and ate it. It was sweet as honey in my mouth,
but when I had eaten it my stomach was made bitter.
Rev 10:11 And I was told, "You must again prophesy about many peoples and nations and languages and
kings."
Rev 11:1 Then I was given a measuring rod like a staff, and I was told, "Rise and measure the temple of God
and the altar and those who worship there,
Rev 11:2 but do not measure the court outside the temple; leave that out, for it is given over to the nations, and
they will trample the holy city for forty-two months.Rev 11:3 And I will grant authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for 1,260 days, clothed in
sackcloth."
Rev 11:4 These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the earth.
Rev 11:5 And if anyone would harm them, fire pours from their mouth and consumes their foes. If anyone would
harm them, this is how he is doomed to be killed.
Rev 11:6 They have the power to shut the sky, that no rain may fall during the days of their prophesying, and
they have power over the waters to turn them into blood and to strike the earth with every kind of plague, as
often as they desire.
Rev 11:7 And when they have finished their testimony, the beast that rises from the bottomless pit will make war
on them and conquer them and kill them,
Rev 11:8 and their dead bodies will lie in the street of the great city that symbolically is called Sodom and Egypt,
where their Lord was crucified.
Rev 11:9 For three and a half days some from the peoples and tribes and languages and nations will gaze at
their dead bodies and refuse to let them be placed in a tomb,
Rev 11:10 and those who dwell on the earth will rejoice over them and make merry and exchange presents,
because these two prophets had been a torment to those who dwell on the earth.
Rev 11:11 But after the three and a half days a breath of life from God entered them, and they stood up on their
feet, and great fear fell on those who saw them.
Rev 11:12 Then they heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them, "Come up here!" And they went up to
heaven in a cloud, and their enemies watched them.
Rev 11:13 And at that hour there was a great earthquake, and a tenth of the city fell. Seven thousand people
were killed in the earthquake, and the rest were terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven.
Rev 11:14 The second woe has passed; behold, the third woe is soon to come.
Rev 11:15 Then the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and there were loud voices in heaven, saying, "The
kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever and
ever."
Rev 11:16 And the twenty-four elders who sit on their thrones before God fell on their faces and worshiped God,
Rev 11:17 saying, "We give thanks to you, Lord God Almighty, who is and who was, for you have taken your
great power and begun to reign.
Rev 11:18 The nations raged, but your wrath came, and the time for the dead to be judged, and for rewarding
your servants, the prophets and saints, and those who fear your name, both small and great, and for destroying
the destroyers of the earth."
Rev 11:19 Then God's temple in heaven was opened, and the ark of his covenant was seen within his temple.
There were flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder, an earthquake, and heavy hail.
Rev 12:1 And a great sign appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet,
and on her head a crown of twelve stars.
Rev 12:2 She was pregnant and was crying out in birth pains and the agony of giving birth.
Rev 12:3 And another sign appeared in heaven: behold, a great red dragon, with seven heads and ten horns,
and on his heads seven diadems.
Rev 12:4 His tail swept down a third of the stars of heaven and cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood
before the woman who was about to give birth, so that when she bore her child he might devour it.
Rev 12:5 She gave birth to a male child, one who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron, but her child was
caught up to God and to his throne,
Rev 12:6 and the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by God, in which she is to be
nourished for 1,260 days.
Rev 12:7 Now war arose in heaven, Michael and his angels fighting against the dragon. And the dragon and his
angels fought back,
Rev 12:8 but he was defeated and there was no longer any place for them in heaven.
Rev 12:9 And the great dragon was thrown down, that ancient serpent, who is called the devil and Satan, the
deceiver of the whole world- he was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him.
Rev 12:10 And I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying, "Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of
our God and the authority of his Christ have come, for the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down, who
accuses them day and night before our God.
Rev 12:11 And they have conquered him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, for they
loved not their lives even unto death.
Rev 12:12 Therefore, rejoice, O heavens and you who dwell in them! But woe to you, O earth and sea, for the
devil has come down to you in great wrath, because he knows that his time is short!"
Rev 12:13 And when the dragon saw that he had been thrown down to the earth, he pursued the woman who
had given birth to the male child.Rev 12:14 But the woman was given the two wings of the great eagle so that she might fly from the serpent into
the wilderness, to the place where she is to be nourished for a time, and times, and half a time.
Rev 12:15 The serpent poured water like a river out of his mouth after the woman, to sweep her away with a
flood.
Rev 12:16 But the earth came to the help of the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed the
river that the dragon had poured from his mouth.
Rev 12:17 Then the dragon became furious with the woman and went off to make war on the rest of her
offspring, on those who keep the commandments of God and hold to the testimony of Jesus. And he stood on
the sand of the sea.
Rev 13:1 And I saw a beast rising out of the sea, with ten horns and seven heads, with ten diadems on its horns
and blasphemous names on its heads.
Rev 13:2 And the beast that I saw was like a leopard; its feet were like a bear's, and its mouth was like a lion's
mouth. And to it the dragon gave his power and his throne and great authority.
Rev 13:3 One of its heads seemed to have a mortal wound, but its mortal wound was healed, and the whole
earth marveled as they followed the beast.
Rev 13:4 And they worshiped the dragon, for he had given his authority to the beast, and they worshiped the
beast, saying, "Who is like the beast, and who can fight against it?"
Rev 13:5 And the beast was given a mouth uttering haughty and blasphemous words, and it was allowed to
exercise authority for forty-two months.
Rev 13:6 It opened its mouth to utter blasphemies against God, blaspheming his name and his dwelling, that is,
those who dwell in heaven.
Rev 13:7 Also it was allowed to make war on the saints and to conquer them. And authority was given it over
every tribe and people and language and nation,
Rev 13:8 and all who dwell on earth will worship it, everyone whose name has not been written before the
foundation of the world in the book of life of the Lamb that was slain.
Rev 13:9 If anyone has an ear, let him hear:
Rev 13:10 If anyone is to be taken captive, to captivity he goes; if anyone is to be slain with the sword, with the
sword must he be slain. Here is a call for the endurance and faith of the saints.
Rev 13:11 Then I saw another beast rising out of the earth. It had two horns like a lamb and it spoke like a
dragon.
Rev 13:12 It exercises all the authority of the first beast in its presence, and makes the earth and its inhabitants
worship the first beast, whose mortal wound was healed.
Rev 13:13 It performs great signs, even making fire come down from heaven to earth in front of people,
Rev 13:14 and by the signs that it is allowed to work in the presence of the beast it deceives those who dwell on
earth, telling them to make an image for the beast that was wounded by the sword and yet lived.
Rev 13:15 And it was allowed to give breath to the image of the beast, so that the image of the beast might
even speak and might cause those who would not worship the image of the beast to be slain.
Rev 13:16 Also it causes all, both small and great, both rich and poor, both free and slave, to be marked on the
right hand or the forehead,
Rev 13:17 so that no one can buy or sell unless he has the mark, that is, the name of the beast or the number of
its name.
Rev 13:18 This calls for wisdom: let the one who has understanding calculate the number of the beast, for it is
the number of a man, and his number is 666.
Rev 14:1 Then I looked, and behold, on Mount Zion stood the Lamb, and with him 144,000 who had his name
and his Father's name written on their foreheads.
Rev 14:2 And I heard a voice from heaven like the roar of many waters and like the sound of loud thunder. The
voice I heard was like the sound of harpists playing on their harps,
Rev 14:3 and they were singing a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and before
the elders. No one could learn that song except the 144,000 who had been redeemed from the earth.
Rev 14:4 It is these who have not defiled themselves with women, for they are virgins. It is these who follow the
Lamb wherever he goes. These have been redeemed from mankind as firstfruits for God and the Lamb,
Rev 14:5 and in their mouth no lie was found, for they are blameless.
Rev 14:6 Then I saw another angel flying directly overhead, with an eternal gospel to proclaim to those who
dwell on earth, to every nation and tribe and language and people.
Rev 14:7 And he said with a loud voice, "Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has
come, and worship him who made heaven and earth, the sea and the springs of water."
Rev 14:8 Another angel, a second, followed, saying, "Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great, she who made all
nations drink the wine of the passion of her sexual immorality."
Rev 14:9 And another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a loud voice, "If anyone worships the beast andits image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand,
Rev 14:10 he also will drink the wine of God's wrath, poured full strength into the cup of his anger, and he will
be tormented with fire and sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb.
Rev 14:11 And the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever, and they have no rest, day or night, these
worshipers of the beast and its image, and whoever receives the mark of its name."
Rev 14:12 Here is a call for the endurance of the saints, those who keep the commandments of God and their
faith in Jesus.
Rev 14:13 And I heard a voice from heaven saying, "Write this: Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from
now on." "Blessed indeed," says the Spirit, "that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds follow them!"
Rev 14:14 Then I looked, and behold, a white cloud, and seated on the cloud one like a son of man, with a
golden crown on his head, and a sharp sickle in his hand.
Rev 14:15 And another angel came out of the temple, calling with a loud voice to him who sat on the cloud, "Put
in your sickle, and reap, for the hour to reap has come, for the harvest of the earth is fully ripe."
Rev 14:16 So he who sat on the cloud swung his sickle across the earth, and the earth was reaped.
Rev 14:17 Then another angel came out of the temple in heaven, and he too had a sharp sickle.
Rev 14:18 And another angel came out from the altar, the angel who has authority over the fire, and he called
with a loud voice to the one who had the sharp sickle, "Put in your sickle and gather the clusters from the vine of
the earth, for its grapes are ripe."
Rev 14:19 So the angel swung his sickle across the earth and gathered the grape harvest of the earth and
threw it into the great winepress of the wrath of God.
Rev 14:20 And the winepress was trodden outside the city, and blood flowed from the winepress, as high as a
horse's bridle, for 1,600 stadia.
Rev 15:1 Then I saw another sign in heaven, great and amazing, seven angels with seven plagues, which are
the last, for with them the wrath of God is finished.
Rev 15:2 And I saw what appeared to be a sea of glass mingled with fire- and also those who had conquered
the beast and its image and the number of its name, standing beside the sea of glass with harps of God in their
hands.
Rev 15:3 And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, "Great and
amazing are your deeds, O Lord God the Almighty! Just and true are your ways, O King of the nations!
Rev 15:4 Who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify your name? For you alone are holy. All nations will come and
worship you, for your righteous acts have been revealed."
Rev 15:5 After this I looked, and the sanctuary of the tent of witness in heaven was opened,
Rev 15:6 and out of the sanctuary came the seven angels with the seven plagues, clothed in pure, bright linen,
with golden sashes around their chests.
Rev 15:7 And one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of
God who lives forever and ever,
Rev 15:8 and the sanctuary was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power, and no one could
enter the sanctuary until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished.
Rev 16:1 Then I heard a loud voice from the temple telling the seven angels, "Go and pour out on the earth the
seven bowls of the wrath of God."
Rev 16:2 So the first angel went and poured out his bowl on the earth, and harmful and painful sores came
upon the people who bore the mark of the beast and worshiped its image.
Rev 16:3 The second angel poured out his bowl into the sea, and it became like the blood of a corpse, and
every living thing died that was in the sea.
Rev 16:4 The third angel poured out his bowl into the rivers and the springs of water, and they became blood.
Rev 16:5 And I heard the angel in charge of the waters say, "Just are you, O Holy One, who is and who was, for
you brought these judgments.
Rev 16:6 For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and you have given them blood to drink. It is
what they deserve!"
Rev 16:7 And I heard the altar saying, "Yes, Lord God the Almighty, true and just are your judgments!"
Rev 16:8 The fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun, and it was allowed to scorch people with fire.
Rev 16:9 They were scorched by the fierce heat, and they cursed the name of God who had power over these
plagues. They did not repent and give him glory.
Rev 16:10 The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and its kingdom was plunged into
darkness. People gnawed their tongues in anguish
Rev 16:11 and cursed the God of heaven for their pain and sores. They did not repent of their deeds.
Rev 16:12 The sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates, and its water was dried up, to
prepare the way for the kings from the east.
Rev 16:13 And I saw, coming out of the mouth of the dragon and out of the mouth of the beast and out of themouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits like frogs.
Rev 16:14 For they are demonic spirits, performing signs, who go abroad to the kings of the whole world, to
assemble them for battle on the great day of God the Almighty.
Rev 16:15 ("Behold, I am coming like a thief! Blessed is the one who stays awake, keeping his garments on,
that he may not go about naked and be seen exposed!")
Rev 16:16 And they assembled them at the place that in Hebrew is called Armageddon.
Rev 16:17 The seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air, and a loud voice came out of the temple, from the
throne, saying, "It is done!"
Rev 16:18 And there were flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder, and a great earthquake such as
there had never been since man was on the earth, so great was that earthquake.
Rev 16:19 The great city was split into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell, and God remembered
Babylon the great, to make her drain the cup of the wine of the fury of his wrath.
Rev 16:20 And every island fled away, and no mountains were to be found.
Rev 16:21 And great hailstones, about one hundred pounds each, fell from heaven on people; and they cursed
God for the plague of the hail, because the plague was so severe.
Rev 17:1 Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and said to me, "Come, I will show you
the judgment of the great prostitute who is seated on many waters,
Rev 17:2 with whom the kings of the earth have committed sexual immorality, and with the wine of whose
sexual immorality the dwellers on earth have become drunk."
Rev 17:3 And he carried me away in the Spirit into a wilderness, and I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast
that was full of blasphemous names, and it had seven heads and ten horns.
Rev 17:4 The woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and jewels and pearls, holding
in her hand a golden cup full of abominations and the impurities of her sexual immorality.
Rev 17:5 And on her forehead was written a name of mystery: "Babylon the great, mother of prostitutes and of
earth's abominations."
Rev 17:6 And I saw the woman, drunk with the blood of the saints, the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. When I
saw her, I marveled greatly.
Rev 17:7 But the angel said to me, "Why do you marvel? I will tell you the mystery of the woman, and of the
beast with seven heads and ten horns that carries her.
Rev 17:8 The beast that you saw was, and is not, and is about to rise from the bottomless pit and go to
destruction. And the dwellers on earth whose names have not been written in the book of life from the foundation
of the world will marvel to see the beast, because it was and is not and is to come.
Rev 17:9 This calls for a mind with wisdom: the seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman is
seated;
Rev 17:10 they are also seven kings, five of whom have fallen, one is, the other has not yet come, and when he
does come he must remain only a little while.
Rev 17:11 As for the beast that was and is not, it is an eighth but it belongs to the seven, and it goes to
destruction.
Rev 17:12 And the ten horns that you saw are ten kings who have not yet received royal power, but they are to
receive authority as kings for one hour, together with the beast.
Rev 17:13 These are of one mind and hand over their power and authority to the beast.
Rev 17:14 They will make war on the Lamb, and the Lamb will conquer them, for he is Lord of lords and King of
kings, and those with him are called and chosen and faithful."
Rev 17:15 And the angel said to me, "The waters that you saw, where the prostitute is seated, are peoples and
multitudes and nations and languages.
Rev 17:16 And the ten horns that you saw, they and the beast will hate the prostitute. They will make her
desolate and naked, and devour her flesh and burn her up with fire,
Rev 17:17 for God has put it into their hearts to carry out his purpose by being of one mind and handing over
their royal power to the beast, until the words of God are fulfilled.
Rev 17:18 And the woman that you saw is the great city that has dominion over the kings of the earth."
Rev 18:1 After this I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great authority, and the earth was
made bright with his glory.
Rev 18:2 And he called out with a mighty voice, "Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great! She has become a dwelling
place for demons, a haunt for every unclean spirit, a haunt for every unclean bird, a haunt for every unclean and
detestable beast.
Rev 18:3 For all nations have drunk the wine of the passion of her sexual immorality, and the kings of the earth
have committed immorality with her, and the merchants of the earth have grown rich from the power of her
luxurious living."
Rev 18:4 Then I heard another voice from heaven saying, "Come out of her, my people, lest you take part in hersins, lest you share in her plagues;
Rev 18:5 for her sins are heaped high as heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities.
Rev 18:6 Pay her back as she herself has paid back others, and repay her double for her deeds; mix a double
portion for her in the cup she mixed.
Rev 18:7 As she glorified herself and lived in luxury, so give her a like measure of torment and mourning, since
in her heart she says, 'I sit as a queen, I am no widow, and mourning I shall never see.'
Rev 18:8 For this reason her plagues will come in a single day, death and mourning and famine, and she will be
burned up with fire; for mighty is the Lord God who has judged her."
Rev 18:9 And the kings of the earth, who committed sexual immorality and lived in luxury with her, will weep and
wail over her when they see the smoke of her burning.
Rev 18:10 They will stand far off, in fear of her torment, and say, "Alas! Alas! You great city, you mighty city,
Babylon! For in a single hour your judgment has come."
Rev 18:11 And the merchants of the earth weep and mourn for her, since no one buys their cargo anymore,
Rev 18:12 cargo of gold, silver, jewels, pearls, fine linen, purple cloth, silk, scarlet cloth, all kinds of scented
wood, all kinds of articles of ivory, all kinds of articles of costly wood, bronze, iron and marble,
Rev 18:13 cinnamon, spice, incense, myrrh, frankincense, wine, oil, fine flour, wheat, cattle and sheep, horses
and chariots, and slaves, that is, human souls.
Rev 18:14 "The fruit for which your soul longed has gone from you, and all your delicacies and your splendors
are lost to you, never to be found again!"
Rev 18:15 The merchants of these wares, who gained wealth from her, will stand far off, in fear of her torment,
weeping and mourning aloud,
Rev 18:16 "Alas, alas, for the great city that was clothed in fine linen, in purple and scarlet, adorned with gold,
with jewels, and with pearls!
Rev 18:17 For in a single hour all this wealth has been laid waste." And all shipmasters and seafaring men,
sailors and all whose trade is on the sea, stood far off
Rev 18:18 and cried out as they saw the smoke of her burning, "What city was like the great city?"
Rev 18:19 And they threw dust on their heads as they wept and mourned, crying out, "Alas, alas, for the great
city where all who had ships at sea grew rich by her wealth! For in a single hour she has been laid waste.
Rev 18:20 Rejoice over her, O heaven, and you saints and apostles and prophets, for God has given judgment
for you against her!"
Rev 18:21 Then a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone and threw it into the sea, saying, "So will
Babylon the great city be thrown down with violence, and will be found no more;
Rev 18:22 and the sound of harpists and musicians, of flute players and trumpeters, will be heard in you no
more, and a craftsman of any craft will be found in you no more, and the sound of the mill will be heard in you no
more,
Rev 18:23 and the light of a lamp will shine in you no more, and the voice of bridegroom and bride will be heard
in you no more, for your merchants were the great ones of the earth, and all nations were deceived by your
sorcery.
Rev 18:24 And in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints, and of all who have been slain on earth."
Rev 19:1 After this I heard what seemed to be the loud voice of a great multitude in heaven, crying out,
"Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power belong to our God,
Rev 19:2 for his judgments are true and just; for he has judged the great prostitute who corrupted the earth with
her immorality, and has avenged on her the blood of his servants."
Rev 19:3 Once more they cried out, "Hallelujah! The smoke from her goes up forever and ever."
Rev 19:4 And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshiped God who was seated
on the throne, saying, "Amen. Hallelujah!"
Rev 19:5 And from the throne came a voice saying, "Praise our God, all you his servants, you who fear him,
small and great."
Rev 19:6 Then I heard what seemed to be the voice of a great multitude, like the roar of many waters and like
the sound of mighty peals of thunder, crying out, "Hallelujah! For the Lord our God the Almighty reigns.
Rev 19:7 Let us rejoice and exult and give him the glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his Bride
has made herself ready;
Rev 19:8 it was granted her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and pure"- for the fine linen is the righteous
deeds of the saints.
Rev 19:9 And the angel said to me, "Write this: Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the
Lamb." And he said to me, "These are the true words of God."
Rev 19:10 Then I fell down at his feet to worship him, but he said to me, "You must not do that! I am a fellow
servant with you and your brothers who hold to the testimony of Jesus. Worship God." For the testimony of
Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.Rev 19:11 Then I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse! The one sitting on it is called Faithful and
True, and in righteousness he judges and makes war.
Rev 19:12 His eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems, and he has a name written that
no one knows but himself.
Rev 19:13 He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is The Word of God.
Rev 19:14 And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, were following him on white horses.
Rev 19:15 From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them
with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty.
Rev 19:16 On his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of kings and Lord of lords.
Rev 19:17 Then I saw an angel standing in the sun, and with a loud voice he called to all the birds that fly
directly overhead, "Come, gather for the great supper of God,
Rev 19:18 to eat the flesh of kings, the flesh of captains, the flesh of mighty men, the flesh of horses and their
riders, and the flesh of all men, both free and slave, both small and great."
Rev 19:19 And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth with their armies gathered to make war against him
who was sitting on the horse and against his army.
Rev 19:20 And the beast was captured, and with it the false prophet who in its presence had done the signs by
which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshiped its image. These two
were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with sulfur.
Rev 19:21 And the rest were slain by the sword that came from the mouth of him who was sitting on the horse,
and all the birds were gorged with their flesh.
Rev 20:1 Then I saw an angel coming down from heaven, holding in his hand the key to the bottomless pit and
a great chain.
Rev 20:2 And he seized the dragon, that ancient serpent, who is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a
thousand years,
Rev 20:3 and threw him into the pit, and shut it and sealed it over him, so that he might not deceive the nations
any longer, until the thousand years were ended. After that he must be released for a little while.
Rev 20:4 Then I saw thrones, and seated on them were those to whom the authority to judge was committed.
Also I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus and for the word of God, and
who had not worshiped the beast or its image and had not received its mark on their foreheads or their hands.
They came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years.
Rev 20:5 The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended. This is the first
resurrection.
Rev 20:6 Blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first resurrection! Over such the second death has no
power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with him for a thousand years.
Rev 20:7 And when the thousand years are ended, Satan will be released from his prison
Rev 20:8 and will come out to deceive the nations that are at the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to
gather them for battle; their number is like the sand of the sea.
Rev 20:9 And they marched up over the broad plain of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and the
beloved city, but fire came down from heaven and consumed them,
Rev 20:10 and the devil who had deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur where the beast and
the false prophet were, and they will be tormented day and night forever and ever.
Rev 20:11 Then I saw a great white throne and him who was seated on it. From his presence earth and sky fled
away, and no place was found for them.
Rev 20:12 And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Then
another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by what was written in the books,
according to what they had done.
Rev 20:13 And the sea gave up the dead who were in it, Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them,
and they were judged, each one of them, according to what they had done.
Rev 20:14 Then Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire.
Rev 20:15 And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire.
Rev 21:1 Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away,
and the sea was no more.
Rev 21:2 And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride
adorned for her husband.
Rev 21:3 And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, "Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He
will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God.
Rev 21:4 He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be
mourning nor crying nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away."
Rev 21:5 And he who was seated on the throne said, "Behold, I am making all things new." Also he said, "Writethis down, for these words are trustworthy and true."
Rev 21:6 And he said to me, "It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the
thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment.
Rev 21:7 The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God and he will be my son.
Rev 21:8 But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral,
sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the
second death."
Rev 21:9 Then came one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues and spoke
to me, saying, "Come, I will show you the Bride, the wife of the Lamb."
Rev 21:10 And he carried me away in the Spirit to a great, high mountain, and showed me the holy city
Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God,
Rev 21:11 having the glory of God, its radiance like a most rare jewel, like a jasper, clear as crystal.
Rev 21:12 It had a great, high wall, with twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and on the gates the
names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel were inscribedRev 21:13 on the east three gates, on the north three gates, on the south three gates, and on the west three
gates.
Rev 21:14 And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve
apostles of the Lamb.
Rev 21:15 And the one who spoke with me had a measuring rod of gold to mea sure the city and its gates and
walls.
Rev 21:16 The city lies foursquare; its length the same as its width. And he measured the city with his rod,
12,000 stadia. Its length and width and height are equal.
Rev 21:17 He also measured its wall, 144 cubits by human measurement, which is also an angel's
measurement.
Rev 21:18 The wall was built of jasper, while the city was pure gold, clear as glass.
Rev 21:19 The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every kind of jewel. The first was jasper, the
second sapphire, the third agate, the fourth emerald,
Rev 21:20 the fifth onyx, the sixth carnelian, the seventh chrysolite, the eighth beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth
chrysoprase, the eleventh jacinth, the twelfth amethyst.
Rev 21:21 And the twelve gates were twelve pearls, each of the gates made of a single pearl, and the street of
the city was pure gold, transparent as glass.
Rev 21:22 And I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb.
Rev 21:23 And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light, and its lamp
is the Lamb.
Rev 21:24 By its light will the nations walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it,
Rev 21:25 and its gates will never be shut by day- and there will be no night there.
Rev 21:26 They will bring into it the glory and the honor of the nations.
Rev 21:27 But nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor anyone who does what is detestable or false, but only
those who are written in the Lamb's book of life.
Rev 22:1 Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, bright as crystal, flowing from the throne of
God and of the Lamb
Rev 22:2 through the middle of the street of the city; also, on either side of the river, the tree of life with its
twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.
Rev 22:3 No longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his
servants will worship him.
Rev 22:4 They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads.
Rev 22:5 And night will be no more. They will need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light,
and they will reign forever and ever.
Rev 22:6 And he said to me, "These words are trustworthy and true. And the Lord, the God of the spirits of the
prophets, has sent his angel to show his servants what must soon take place."
Rev 22:7 "And behold, I am coming soon. Blessed is the one who keeps the words of the prophecy of this
book."
Rev 22:8 I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. And when I heard and saw them, I fell down to
worship at the feet of the angel who showed them to me,
Rev 22:9 but he said to me, "You must not do that! I am a fellow servant with you and your brothers the
prophets, and with those who keep the words of this book. Worship God."
Rev 22:10 And he said to me, "Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is near.
Rev 22:11 Let the evildoer still do evil, and the filthy still be filthy, and the righteous still do right, and the holy still
be holy."Rev 22:12 "Behold, I am coming soon, bringing my recompense with me, to repay everyone for what he has
done.
Rev 22:13 I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end."
Rev 22:14 Blessed are those who wash their robes, so that they may have the right to the tree of life and that
they may enter the city by the gates.
Rev 22:15 Outside are the dogs and sorcerers and the sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and
everyone who loves and practices falsehood.
Rev 22:16 "I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify to you about these things for the churches. I am the root and
the descendant of David, the bright morning star."
Rev 22:17 The Spirit and the Bride say, "Come." And let the one who hears say, "Come." And let the one who is
thirsty come; let the one who desires take the water of life without price.
Rev 22:18 I warn everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book: if anyone adds to them, God will
add to him the plagues described in this book,
Rev 22:19 and if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his share
in the tree of life and in the holy city, which are described in this book.
Rev 22:20 He who testifies to these things says, "Surely I am coming soon." Amen. Come, Lord Jesus!
Rev 22:21 The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all. Amen.